#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/teaching/alums.php
Alumni - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Degree Programs in Egyptology Prospective Students Graduate Undergraduate Current M.A. Students Alumni Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Teaching Alumni Alumni - M.A. in Egyptian Art Name Year Thesis Title Margaret Nutt Moore 1994 An examination of the botanical identification, style, and iconographical significance of the upper Egyptian heraldic emblem the Swt Mary Louise Moore-Haney 1995 A proposed date for a limestone relief of a head of a Nubian from the Albert Gallatin Collection Doris Layne 1996 Exploring the question of narrative in Egyptian art Christopher Williams 1996 Bes as a protector of the dead and the resurrection Pamela J. Wilson 1997 A new interpretation of the solar and osirian roles of the four sons of Horus as active participants in the afterlife transformation Mary Ann Marazzi 1998 A reconstruction of the ritual involving the "išd" tree scene and its importance in New Kingdom Egypt David Seifert 1999 Construction techniques and materials involved in the manufacture of low stools in New Kingdom Egypt Ann Michelle Marlar 1999 Exploring the symbolism of Egyptian "new year's" bottles Anne Igoe 1999 The origins and evolution of the griffin motif in Egyptian art : from the Predynastic to the early New Kingdom Michelle McClenny 2000 A child's coffin (Michael C. Carlos Museum, Emory University, 1921.5A): a study in authenticity Amy Meilleur 2000 A re-examination of the chariot of Thutmosis IV Tammy Hilburn 2001 Amarna style and the cult of fertility : canopics, anatomy and the legitimization of kinship during the reign of Amenhotep IV/Akhenaten Jane Hill 2001 Cylinder seal glyptic in predynastic Egypt and neighboring regions Daniel Cole 2001 Same gender equality in Old Kingdom tombs Heather Reeves 2002 A stela of Khaemwaset and evidence of private worship in Late New Kingdom Memphis Kevin L. Johnson 2002 An examination of the sarcophagus of a New Kingdom official, Menna: Its archaeological context, reconstruction, and iconographic program Merit Huey 2003 A stylistic study of a bust of Ramesses III, MFA29.733 William Clifford 2003 The four principal themes of ancient Egyptian funerary belief and their expression in coffin decoration Susan Allison 2003 An examination of the three Nedjemu statues from the Great Western Cemetery at Giza Jared Krebsbach 2003 The Darius statue from Susa: A study of socio-political relations between ruler and subject in Egypt's Twenty-Seventh Dynasty Liz Cummins 2003 The iconography of the Serapis Cult in the Main Catacomb of Kom el Shoqafa, Alexandria Amanda Leenerts 2003 The First Intermediate Period coffin of Ibwi, priestess of Hathor, from Mesheikh, Egypt, tomb 123, room B Eric McCann 2003 The offering table of Nastasen: A glimpse into the royal funerary cult of ancient Sudan Brian E. Smith 2003 The shrine of Yegegi: Uniting sculpture and architecture in Old Kingdom art Laura Deneke 2004 The motif of pharaoh astride a cat Lori Francz 2005 A study of two non-royal faience pectorals (1988.14.50 and 1988.14.51 a-k) in the collection of the University of Memphis Christine End 2006 The mirror standard: Reflections of the divine in ancient Egypt Dennis O'Connor 2006 Queen Meresankh III and her tomb paintings by Joseph Lindon Smith Sharon Nichols 2006 The divergent double pipe: A musical instrument of the Egyptian New Kingdom and Late Period Flora Hesse 2007 The iconography and use of the sistrum in the pharaonic period Jobie Hill 2007 An architectural reconstruction of mastaba G 2381 Andrea ("Annie") Shanley 2007 A unique royal head revisited Lionel Jacob Shock 2007 Pairy, an official of the God's Wife of Amun in the early Eighteenth Dynasty Alison Kurth 2007 A study of a relaxed recumbent lion statue in the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology at the University of Memphis 1990.1.31 Erin Peters 2007 Vessels 2002.1.72, 2002.1.73 and 2002.1.74 in the collection of the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology at the University of Memphis and the royal foundation deposits of Hatshepsut Sarah Schellinger 2007 Two royal ushabtis of the Twenty-Fifth Dynasty and the Napatan Period in the collection of the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology at the University of Memphis (1981.1.39 and 1981.1.41) Victoria A. Russell 2007 Foreigners in the tomb of Rekhmire (Theban Tomb 100) Erin Sauer 2008 Animal mummies from the Late, Ptolemaic and Roman Periods in Egypt: A study of wrapping styles and their meaning Kelly Bozarth 2008 Head case: A study of a head of Amun (IEAA 1990.4.1) Patrick Salland 2008 Pharaoh's grapes: A study of faience decorative grape clusters Megan Lowery 2008 An examination of the tree of life motif on an intaglio gemstone (1993.3.3) in the collection of the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology at the University of Memphis Cara Linda Mitchell 2008 Royal mortuary complexes of the New Kingdom: An examination of their architecture, design and meaning Tiffany Redman 2008 A study of theriomorphic stone vessels in Predynastic Egypt Nicole Vaughn 2008 Amulets of Amun: Daily or mortuary significance? Sarah Pitt Kaplan 2008 From a King to a God: A study of a Late Period bronze statue from the St. Louis Art Museum Sarah Chandlee 2009 Walking through the afterlife: A study of the scenes where Anubis leads the deceased to Osiris Christine DuMars 2009 The First Intermediate Period stela of Iku and Mer-imat Joseph Lafayette Gaston 2009 A study of bull's tails and bovine furniture supports in the Predynastic and Early Dynastic Periods Lana Higbee Hill 2009 Their heads to keep: A study and catalogue of decorated ancient Egyptian headrests Lacy Jones 2009 The memory of the dead: A study of Theban tomb 192 Danielle Phelps 2009 Landscape representation in Ancient Egyptian Art: The investigation of the "destroyed unnamed town and its devastated landscape" relief at Luxor Temple Lindsey Schifko 2009 Ba birds, shadows, and black hole suns: Interpreting a complex representation of spell 92 from the ancient Egyptian Book of the Dead Meghan Strong 2009 Let there be light: A study of natural and artificial light in New Kingdom Egypt (1570-1070 B.C.) Elizabeth McDonald 2009 An analysis of a shabti of Amenhotep III (MFA 4.1854) Jennifer Butterworth 2010 The children of the king: An analysis of the identity and ritual role of the msw nswt in pharaonic Egypt Sarah Chapman 2010 The role of the bead-net shroud within late Twenty-sixth Dynasty Egyptian burials A.J. Walker 2010 The iconography and role of serpents in Ancient Egypt: The serpent demon Apophis Rachel Benkowski 2011 The sun queen's trademark: A study of the tall blue crown of Queen Nefertiti Melissa Boyschou 2011 Destruction by fire: Interpreting the Lake of Fire vignette from two Twenty-First Dynasty funerary papyri Rosa Erika Feleg 2011 Features of the early relief decoration of Ramesses II at the Karnak Hypostyle Hall and the Ramesside forecourt at Luxor Temple Branden Fjerstad 2011 The 'Window of Appearance' re-opened: New perspectives on a New Kingdom royal venue Sarah Krueger 2011 Embracing the West: an ancient Egyptian family's transition to the afterlife. Lindsay Vosburg Ocal 2011 The Sistrum as a Marker of the Divine Nature of Queenship in the Amarna Period Luke Breinig 2012 Astronomy, cosmology, and religious expression in the New Kingdom: A study of late Ramesside cosmological funerary scenes Grace Lahneman 2012 The social, economic, and political connotations of the tomb of Huy (Theban Tomb 40) for foreign relations with ancient Nubia in the 18th Dynasty Andrew Shilling 2012 Constructing the cosmos: The role of the Egyptian king in the Foundation Ceremony Elissa Ferguson 2012 Time and meaning: The use of the fishing and fowling scene through time in ancient Egyptian non-royal tombs Aaron Smith 2012 An analysis of the alteration of style during the later Old Kingdom and late Eighteenth Dynasty Andrea Middleton 2013 Representations of time in the temple of Hathor at Dendera: Iconographical analyses of the two astronomical ceilings in terms of Neheh and Djet Alec Noah 2013 A preliminary study of the inner coffin and mummy cover of Nesytanebettawy from Bab el-Gusus (A.9) in the National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. Christopher Stelter 2013 Obtained by one's own hands: a theory on the Middle Class of ancient Egypt and funerary stelae of the First Intermediate Period Megan Valentine 2013 An examination of a coffin fragment in the collection of the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology at the University of Memphis Elizabeth Golden 2014 Nut, the zodiac, and Sothis: An Iconographical Analysis of Five Coffin Lids from the Roman Period Soter Group Brandi Hill 2014 The evolution of royal female power from the late Old Kingdom through the Twelfth Dynasty Ashley Stanton 2014 "Legless birds": a re-examination of the motivating factors behind hieroglyphic "mutilation" Remi Chan 2015 Brooke Garcia 2015 Katlyn Greiner 2015 Robyn Price 2015 Degree Programs in Egyptology Prospective Students Graduate Undergraduate Current M.A. Students Alumni Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .