#http://www.memphis.edu/cs/news_and_events/news/2015_kumar_coe.php
Prof. Kumar Named Chair of Excellence - Computer Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Computer Science About Future Students Current Students Research People Contact Hiring News &amp; Events Department News Upcoming Events Colloquium Undergraduate Colloquium Newsletters Home Computer Science News &amp; Events Prof. Kumar Named Chair of Excellence Prof. Kumar Named Chair of Excellence Posted on 2015-09-28 Prof. Santosh Kumar has been named the Lillian &amp; Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence in Computer Science. Authorized by the Tennessee General Assembly in March, this is the first state-endowed chair of excellence in computer science to be established in Tennessee. "Dr. Kumar is a recognized national leader in the area of mobile health," said Prof. Dipankar Dasgupta, Interim Chair of the Computer Science Department. "I am delighted that he has received this honor for his ongoing outstanding achievements that exemplify imagination, courage, and high ability for advancing medical informatics research." Prof. Lan Wang, Associate Chair of the department, added, "We are very proud of Dr. Kumar's achievements and excited to have the department's first endowed chair of excellence. As a colleague, I have been deeply impressed by his intense focus on his work, unique ability to work on both theoretical and systems research, excellent skills in managing large projects, and commitment to advancing the department's long-term goals." Santosh is regarded as a national leader in mobile health (mHealth) and is frequently invited to speak at international conferences, universities, and federal agencies. In 2015, he was invited to serve as an advisor on President Obama’s Precision Medicine Initiative. Also in 2015, he was selected by the National Science Foundation as a role model for researchers in mHealth and spoke about his career to aspiring investigators in smart health and wellness. In 2014, he became the director of the NIH-funded Center of Excellence for Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge (MD2K), the first of its kind in the U.S. and part of NIH’s Big Data-to-Knowledge Initiative. He was invited to the White House in 2013 to speak on the future of biosensors, and in 2012, was asked to advise the NIH director on mHealth. He has been a faculty mentor at the NIH mHealth Training Institute, and in 2011 chaired a national meeting on mHealth Evidence that was jointly organized by NIH, NSF, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, and the McKesson Foundation. Santosh obtained his Ph.D. in 2006 from The Ohio State University, where his dissertation was awarded the SBC Presidential fellowship. This honor recognized him as the first-ever student at Ohio State to have his research published in ACM MobiCom, a highly-prestigious venue with acceptance rates in single digits. Upon graduation, Santosh joined the University of Memphis as an Assistant Professor in Computer Science. During his 9 years of faculty service, Santosh has received over $18 million in federal research grants as principal investigator. In one of the most recent grants, Santosh heads one of 11 national Big Data centers of excellence funded by the National Institutes of Health. The MD2K Center of Excellence in Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge ( ) is headquartered in Memphis and involves 20+ investigators in computing, engineering, behavioral science, and medicine from Cornell, Georgia Tech, Michigan, Memphis, Northwestern, Ohio State, Rice, UMass, UCLA, UCSD, and UCSF. The MD2K Center of Excellence is the first $10+ million federal center grant awarded to the University of Memphis. Other notable grants Santosh has been awarded include: 2007: In his first year at U of M, Santosh won three federal grants as principal investigator. One of these was the $1.7 million AutoSense project (U01) from the National Institutes of Health that was funded in the Genes Environment and Health Initiative (GEI). Among the 54 projects funded in this special presidential initiative, Santosh was the youngest principal investigator in the country. 2009: Santosh received a $2.7 million grant called FieldStream from the National Science Foundation (NSF). This was the largest grant in the nation awarded by the NetSE program of NSF. In the FieldStream project, Santosh led a group of 7 investigators from CMU, Georgia Tech, Memphis, UMass Amherst, and UCLA. 2012: Santosh was awarded an R01 from NIH as part of its OppNet initiative and a Smart Health project from NSF. Santosh has published his research in top-tier venues in several areas of computer science. This includes mobile computing (ACM MobiCom, ACM MobiHoc, ACM UbiComp, IEEE/ACM Transactions on Mobile Computing), sensor systems (ACM SenSys, ACM Transactions on Sensor Networks), data modeling (ACM\IEEE IPSN), human computer interaction (ACM CHI), and networking (IEEE Transactions on Networking, IEEE INFOCOM). He has also published in high-quality health research journals (American Journal of Preventive Medicine, Journal of American Medical Informatics, Drug &amp; Addiction, Biological Psychology). His published work is cited widely, with an average of 70 citations per article. Among the awards Santosh has received for his work are an early career research award and a distinguished research award from the University of Memphis. In 2010, Santosh became the first person in Tennessee and other Mid-South states to be selected by Popular Science magazine as one of the America’s ten most brilliant scientists under the age of 38. News &amp; Events Department News Upcoming Events Colloquium Undergraduate Colloquium Newsletters News &amp; Events Weekly colloquium talks and other events Career Opportunities Internship information and job postings for students Degree Programs Information on our degree and certificate programs Courses Recent syllabi for our courses Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .