#http://www.memphis.edu/music/Academics/library.php
Music Library - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Academics Degrees Offered Applied Music Brass Class Piano Collaborative Piano Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Composition, Theory and Musicology Conducting and Large Ensembles Jazz Studies Music Education Area Information Orff Summer Institute Graduate Studies in Music Education Music Industry Music Library Home Music Academics Music Library Music Library Facilities The Library has listening stations equipped with CD players, cassette decks, receivers, and turntables, as well as stations for viewing VHS and DVD recordings. Equipment is in place also for viewing all standard microformats. The Music Library has eight public PCs and two iMacs, which are part of the University network. There is no public printing in the Music Library, but work may be saved on thumb drive or the UM Drive, or may be emailed for printing elsewhere. Materials The collection totals about 47,000 volumes of books, scores and bound periodicals, 17,000 pieces of microforms, and 20,000 recordings. About 150 composers are represented in the sets of complete works. Among the noteworthy historical microforms collections are: Oettingen-Wallerstein collection of manuscripts and printed scores from court and monastery libraries of early 17th to late 19th century eastern Germany. Complete manuscripts of Mozart, Bach, Beethoven, and Telemann from the Staatsbibliothek zu Berlin. Music Manuscripts from the Great English Collections - primarily early 16th to late 18th century manuscripts held by the British Library, Oxford University, and other major English libraries. All performances held in the School of Music are recorded, and the compact discs (or other formats for earlier years) and programs are housed in the Music Library. CDs for the past two years may be checked out under the same guidelines as commercial CDs. There are two special indexes to the recital collection: Memphis Composers Index - indexes works of Memphis area composers found on the recordings; New Music Festival Index - indexes all works performed for the annual Imagine Festival. Circulation Procedures Circulating Books and Scores Faculty and Staff, due at end of academic year; Graduate Students, one semester; Undergraduates and Special Privilege Borrowers, 30 days Recordings Faculty, Students, and Staff, 10 days; All others, in-library use only. Reserve Materials Circulation periods vary – in-library use for most, overnight for some Monuments Faculty and Staff, 10 days; All others, in-library use only Current Periodicals In-library use only Bound Periodicals Faculty and Staff, 3 days; All others, in-library use only Microforms In-library use only Interlibrary Loan All loans are handled through the Interlibrary Loan Department in McWherter Library, room 204, (901) 678-2262. Information can be found on the UofM Libraries web page. Location Room 115, Music Building musiclib@memphis.edu 901.678.2330 Anna Neal Head, Music Library Senior Branch Librarian abneal@memphis.edu 901.678.4412 Francisco Lara Branch Library Assistant flara@memphis.edu 901.678.2330 Our Music library site within the UofM Libraries site is Hours Fall &amp; Spring Semesters Mon-Thur 8:00 am - 8:00 pm Friday 8:00 am - 4:30 pm Saturday 10 am - 2 pm Sunday Closed Summer Session Mon-Thur 8 am - 8 pm Friday 8 am - 4:30 pm Saturday 10 am - 2 pm Sunday Closed When Classes are not in session Mon-Fri 8 am - 4:30 pm Academics Degrees Offered Applied Music Brass Class Piano Collaborative Piano Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Composition, Theory and Musicology Conducting and Large Ensembles Jazz Studies Music Education Area Information Orff Summer Institute Graduate Studies in Music Education Music Industry Music Library Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .