#http://www.memphis.edu/professional/programs/4cs.php
4Cs Lecture Series - PDC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center Welcome Programs Internships Career Coaching Success Stories Events FCBE Community Partners Media Suits For Success Complete Professional Program Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters Other Programs Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Futures in Finance Moving into Management Technology Careers In Business Women in Action Students 4Cs Lecture Series General Information Know Good—Do Good—Thrive Peer Power Success Stories Career Planning Contact Us Home PDC Programs 4Cs Lecture Series 4Cs Lecture Series The 4Cs Lecture Series is integrated into the undergraduate experience at the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. The 4Cs Lecture Series helps them master the four critical functions that are essential to career success: C ommunication, C reativity, C ritical Thinking, Emotional C ontrol. Visiting guest lecturers share personal experiences that relate to each “C”. Instead of simply reading about and discussing the concepts, students experience the 4Cs Lecture Series as part of the overall experience in FCBE to assist in acquiring the skills they need for professional development in the business world. Speakers are provided in core courses for all business majors. For more information, contact Dr. Kathy Tuberville or Ms. Renee DeGutis . If you are a business professional and would like to be a part of this program, please contact us and we’ll be happy to discuss our current needs with you. The 4Cs Lecture Series is incorporated into core classes to meet the requirements for The Complete Professional Program certificate. For more information, contact the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Center , room 274, or call 901.678.4740. Upcoming 4Cs Speakers Frank S. Allen, Jr. Frank is currently a Financial Advisor with Shoemaker Financial. He holds many financial certifications and his professional services include: Financial Planning, Investments, Retirement Planning and College Funding to name a few. He is an Alumni of the University of Memphis and previously worked at Fed Ex for 17 years. Harold Collins Mr. Collins is a member of the Memphis City Council and is also the Special Assistant to the Shelby County District Attorney General and is responsible for violent juvenile crime and truancy. Councilman Collins is also responsible for the District Attorney’s Mentoring Program for six middle schools. They are Chickasaw, Georgian Hills, Hamilton, Hickory Ridge, Ridgeway and Sherwood and five elementary schools, Corning, Ford Road, Hickory Ridge, Westwood and Winridge. Along with those duties, Mr. Collins manages the offices’ Do the Write Thing Challenge. Founded in 1996, the National Campaign to Stop Violence (the “NCSV”) is a 501(c)(3) Stephanie Drouillard Stephanie is currently a Branch Manager for Robert Half International, a global leader in professional staffing and consulting services, with a network of more than 400 offices worldwide. She offers flexible staffing solutions to premier organizations within the Memphis, TN market that require technical expertise on demand. Jen Frank Jen Frank is a Certified Professional Coach whose passion is to help people become the greatest version of themselves: using their gifts and talents while honoring their deepest desires. She uses her training and the experience from her personal and professional transitions to help others as they move to the next great thing in their own lives - whether it’s changing careers, creating work-life balance, adopting new habits, or adjusting to a new life stage. Mark Henry Mark is the President and co-Founder of Signature Advertising, a full-service advertising agency with a rich history of providing creative, solution oriented work for a wide range of top-tier clients. Signature is one of the largest advertising firms in the region and celebrated its 20-year anniversary last fall (2014). Tony Hotchkiss Tony is a 30-year banking veteran who has held various positions within the banking industry. He currently serves as Executive Vice President, Business &amp; Community Banking Sales Executive for Regions Bank in West Tennessee, a position he assumed in January 2008. Prior to joining the Regions West Tennessee Team, he served as the Community Banking Sales Executive for Regions in Central Illinois. Joel Katz Joel is the Manager of the Memphis Grizzlies TEAM UP Youth Sports Partnership. His responsibilities are on the playing field where he is focused on leveraging the principles and best practices of Sports-Based Youth Development to support a community-wide network of youth sports coaches and programs. A native of Southern California, Joel has served the Memphis community since 2010. Mark Mckee Mark has several years of experience as a National Account Sales manager. He transitioned to recruiting in 2004 and is currently a recruiter for Buckman International. He travels all over the US in search of quality employees for his company. He also spends a great deal of personal time working with others in the community through various Career Transition groups and is currently a Protégé’ in the University of Memphis MILE program. Jay B. Myers Jay's $20 million company is based in Memphis and specializes in video conferencing, distance learning, telemedicine and audiovisual sales and support. Jay is also a successful author. His first book, "Keep Swinging," was twice named to Inc. Magazine's CEO Best Read Sellers List. His second book, "Hitting the Curve Balls," was released last year. Joel Nichols Joel Nichols is a visionary leader, creative thinker, and owner of LifeSpeak, Inc, a professional services consultation firm located in Memphis, TN. Joel began his professional career in advertising and marketing in the promotions department of WMC-TV5. After writing and producing several commercial spots, Joel moved on to work in advertising, marketing, &amp; PR at a local advertising agency and for the World Basketball League’s Memphis Rockers. In 1991, Joel went to work for global medical device manufacturer Smith &amp; Nephew, Inc., where he served in various marketing, communications, and advertising capacities in over 20-years with the company. Lori Spicer-Robertson Lori takes each day as an opportunity to advance the city she calls home – Memphis. She recently joined the Center for Learning and Performance as the Manager, Change Leadership for First Horizon. In this capacity, she is fulfilling her passion of people development through leadership development, change management and developing a strategy around diversity and inclusion. Prior to joining the Firstpower culture, she served as the Manager of Community Affairs and Engagement/Volunteer Services for the Regional Medical Center (The MED), where she played a vital role in developing cooperative outreach programs and activities for the regional hospital. Katy Spurlock Katy is the Director of Education and Dissemination at the Urban Child Institute, formerly the First Years Institute. It is a nonprofit organization that focuses on building public will for a progressive children’s policy agenda. They use a variety of media tools and mediums to promote optimum brain development from conception to age 3. Terry Swatley Terry is the President of DDMS and is responsible for all operations of DDM, which is one of the premier managers of Programs for people with intellectual disabilities. DDMS serves over 1,300 individuals, in nine states. DDMS has approximately 1,600 employees under its management umbrella. Revenues are approximately $100 million annually. Terry is also on the advisory board of the Fogelman Complete Professional Program. Mark Thompson Mark is Owner/Partner of V2 Media. His company provides professional high quality HD video production to the Memphis corporate base as well as a client base from all over the world. They also provide all aspects of web design, Logo design and Mobile App designs. Andre' C. Wharton Andre' is a successful attorney with the Wharton Law Firm in Memphis. He has handled numerous judge and jury trials and administrative matters. He also has been successful before the Tennessee Criminal Court of Appeals and the Sixth Circuit United States Court of Appeals. Community Partners Media Suits For Success Complete Professional Program Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters Other Programs Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Futures in Finance Moving into Management Technology Careers In Business Women in Action Students 4Cs Lecture Series General Information Know Good—Do Good—Thrive Peer Power Success Stories Career Planning Contact Us Community Partners For employers looking to hire professional and polished interns, information on Professional Development, and Suits for Success Student Engagement For students looking to get invovled in Peer Power, The Complete Professional Program, and Student Organizations Student Success Stories Learn more about your peers and their successes with our program! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .