#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3215M50.pdf
Course Syllabus MGMT 3215 - M50 Human Resource Management Fall 2015 3 credit hours Instructor: Kelly Mollica, Ph.D. Office Phone: (731) 425 - 7960 or x 5010 from Memphis campus Cell Phone: (731) 234 - 1524 (call or text) E - mail: kmollica@memphis.edu Office: 302 Varnell - Jones, UM Lambuth Campus, Jackson Skype ID: k.mollica URL: memphis.edu/management/faculty/kmollica.php Office Hours: Feel free to contact me for a phone or Skype appointment Course Overview HRM (human resource management) deals with the policies, practices, and systems in valuable asset if managed effectively. The goal of this course is to provide you with an ov erview of HRM. We will take a broad, general management approach rather than delving excessively into technical details. Regardless of your career, your understanding of HRM will be critical for your job success as well as the overall performance and compe titiveness of your organization. HRM is not just something that practices recruiting, hiri ng, training, evaluating, and compensating. In addition, managers are obligated to adhere to employment laws, provide a safe workplace for ethical behavior. As with al l college - level courses, an additional goal is to continue improving important career skills: written communication and critical thinking skills. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: This class is open to students in any major who have at least 45 earned credit hours. There are no pre - requisite courses required. Required Text: Softcover: Noe, Hollenbeck, Gerhart, & Wright. Fundamentals of Human Resource Management . 2015, 6 th ed. McGraw - Hill. ISBN 9780077718367. ebook: Search for ISBN 9780077718367 on websites such as coursesmart.com, packbackbooks.com, or other websites where eBooks are available. Either of the above choices contains everything you need for the class. No special software or publisher access codes are needed. Course Objectives: In this course, you will learn: 1. the critical role of HRM in organizational competitiveness; 2. the basic functions of HRM, including HR planning, job analysis, recruiting, selecting, training, performance evaluation, compensation, and benefits; 3. the legal context affecting HR M practices, including equal employment opportunity and workplace safety; 4. the management practices involved in separating and retaining employees; 5. the importance of ethics, fair treatment, and employee relations in the workplace; and 6. the legal and manageme nt issues related to labor relations and unions. Fogelman College Learning Outcomes for Your Degree: This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time t o become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program: fcbeassessment.net/LearningOutcomes/BBADegreeLearningOutcomes.pdf Course Methodology and Website Information: This is a completely online course and you are not required to be physically present on campus for any course activity. Everything will be done fully online and asynchronously. The main hub of this course is the eCourseware website. You are responsible for ensuring that you have access to the website and for meeting minimum technology requirements so that you can successfully complete the course . If you encounter technical difficulties and need help with eCourseware, you should contact the UM Help Desk ( umhelpdesk.memphis.edu/ ). Note that there are specific windows when activities are o pen and closed, and deadlines for completion of assignments. Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final course grade. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how final grades will be computed. Quizzes: The purpose of the quizzes is to assess your comprehension of the key course concepts as covered in the textbook. Quizzes will be open during a 4 - day window, Thursday through Sunday. Each quiz covers one chapter. The quizzes are timed. You must complete th e quiz in one sitting; you cannot save and return later. You are allowed two quiz deadline extensions (i.e., two chapters) during the semester. You may request a 24 - hour extension with a - 5 point grade penalty, but only if you submit an email request in a dvance of the deadline, or no later than noon on the Monday following the quiz deadline. Note that the extension is for a 24 - hour period p.m. Monday to take the quiz. I will not extend quiz deadlines more than 24 hours and I cannot extend a deadline for a quiz that you have already opened. Discussions: There are a total of ten online discussions. The purpose of the discussions is to provide opportunities for you to inter act with classmates and the instructor on topics relevant to the course. Discussions stay open one week, starting on Monday and closing the following Sunday. You must post at least three comments per discussion topic as follows: (1) no later than Thursd ay you must start a new thread and post your initial response to the topic; and (2) no later than Sunday you must post responses to at least Each discussion topic will be based on an open - ended question or a short article, case, o r video. Be sure to check the schedule carefully to keep up with when discussions open and close. Deadlines for discussions will not be extended for any reason, unless there are technical glitches that affect the entire class. Case Analysis Assignments: The purpose of the written case assignments is to give you the opportunity to apply course concepts in several functional areas of HRM. You will submit written analyses of two short cases per assignment (cases are selected from end - of - chapter cases in th e textbook). The cases to be analyzed will be announced on eCourseware along with specific instructions for each case. Be sure to carefully read instructions for all assignments and contact me if you have questions about what is expected. There are several cases in each chapter so make sure you are analyzing the correct cases that are assigned! One of the major reasons students receive poor grades on written assignments is failure to follow instructions. Each case assignment (two cases per assignment) mus t be no longer than one page, single - spaced, one inch margin, 12 - pt font, and submitted in Word format. Papers that do not follow this format will not be graded. You are allowed to submit the case assignments up to 24 hours late with a - 5 point grade pe nalty. Case assignments will not be accepted more than 24 hours late. Final Project Topic Presentation: The purpose of the final project is to give you an opportunity to research and creatively present a topic of your choice related to human resource man agement. For this project, assume that you will be giving a brief presentation in a workshop for business create a set of PowerPoint slides outlining your presentation. I will provide some suggested topics, but you may use any topic that is related to HRM. You must get your topic approved by me in advance (see course schedule for approval deadline). If you submit the project without prior approval of the topic by the deadl ine, 15 points will be deducted from your project grade. I will provide specific instructions and guidelines for the project on the eCourseware website. You will submit the final may submit it anytime after Fall break as long as your topic has been approved. You are allowed to submit the final project up to 24 hours late with a - 10 point grade penalty. It will not be accepted more than 24 hours late. Summary of Graded Activities: Points earned on the assessed activities will be distributed as follows: Graded Activity Points Quizzes: 12 quizzes x 15 pts each 180 Discussions: 10 discussions x 5 pts each 50 Case Analysis # 1 30 Case Analysis # 2 30 Case Analysis # 3 30 Case Analysis # 4 30 Final Project 50 Total Points 400 Final Course Grades: Final course grades are earned as follows: Point Range Final Grade Point Range Final Grade 398 - 400 A+ 306 - 317 C+ 370 - 397 A 290 - 305 C 358 - 369 A - 278 289 C - 346 - 357 B+ 266 277 D+ 330 - 345 B 238 - 265 D 318 - 329 B - < 238 F Course Policies Syllabus and Course Changes: I reserve the right to make changes to the syllabus, course schedule, deadlines, and/or assignments any time, with reasonable prior notice to students. E - mail: I do not use eCourseware email. You must email me at kmollica@memphis.edu. I will not respond t o emails sent through the eCourseware email system. You are required to maintain and access your University of Memphis email account (e.g., yourname@memphis.edu). You will receive all official course correspondence at this email account and it is your res ponsibility to check your U of M email regularly during the semester. I strongly recommend you email me from your U of M email rather than a go straight to my spam folder, so please be aware of this possibility. eCourseware: You are responsible for learning how to use eCourseware, for ensuring that you have access to a reliable computer and adequate Internet connection, and for addressing technical problems immediately. I s trongly urge you to take quizzes and submit assignments well in advance rather than waiting until the last minute. If you wait until the last minute and experience technical problems that prevent you from completing or submitting on time, this does not exc use you from meeting the deadline. If there is a system - wide technical problem or glitch that affects all students, I will extend deadlines if necessary. Attendance and Participation: The class is asynchronous, meaning that there are no scheduled meeting times, and formal attendance will not be taken. However, you are expected to stay active and engaged throughout the academic term and keep up with the schedule of activities. Your class attendance begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is submitted. As with on - ground courses, I am required to report lack of attendance to the university. For students receiving federal student loans, lack of activity in the course may be treated as non - attendance and can potentially impact student loan eligibility. You should log into the course at several times per week. Keep up with deadlines and announcements communicated by me via the course website a nd email. Stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Be sure to participate in the discussions, which will give you the opportunity to interact with your classmates on a weekly basis. Professional Behavior and Communication: Ensure that your communication with me and your classmates is professional and courteous at all times in this course, just as you would in a business setting. Likewise, you should expect professional and courteous communication from me. I expect you to read and abide by the Fogelman College of Business Netiquette Guide for Online Courses: memphis.edu/fcbe/students/netiquette.php . You are expected to demonstrate good written skills in all writing in this class (i.e., written assignments, online discussions, and emails), using correct spelling, grammar, punctuation, and word usage. Poor writing is unacceptable and will be reflected i n your grade. If you receive feedback from me that your writing is poor, the wrong reaction is to become offended and insulted. A more constructive reaction is to work on improvement. Ask me questions if you are confused about course expectations and assi gnments, but make sure you first read everything carefully (e.g., syllabus, course handouts, assignment instructions, course website, textbook, etc.) before requesting clarification. After reading everything thoroughly, if you still need more information, contact me. Take responsibility for initiating a discussion with me if you have questions or concerns about your performance, grades, or other class - related issues. If you are experiencing a problem in the course, I encourage you to noti fy me immediately rather than waiting until the semester is over. I welcome criticism and feedback offered in a respectful and constructive manner, and so should you. I am not perfect and I sometimes make mistakes in written information, instructions, an d eCourseware settings. When this happens, let me know immediately. I am never offended when students point out my mistakes in fact, I will reward you for doing so! Deadlines, Ex tra Credit, and Make - Up Work: All students are held to the same expectations in this class. You either do the work or I do not extend deadlines beyond the late assignment policies noted above in the syllabus. I do not accept extra credit (u nless it is offered to everyone in the class). I do not accept make - semester for students who are failing the class because they performed poorly on the assignments or did not complete the work by the deadlines. Academic Integrity: I expect you to carefully review and adhere to the following policies and guidelines related to academic integrity: Responsibilities: Fogelman College of Business & Economics Standards for Academic Integrity: memphis.edu/fcbe/stud ents/integrity.php Information on plagiarism: memphis.edu/fcbe/students/plagiarism.php I do not tolerate cheating or plagiarism, and I will accept no excuses for dishonest beh avior. By taking this course, you agree that your written assignments may be submitted to Turnitin.com, or a similar electronic detection method for the purposes of detecting plagiarism. Blatant plagiarism will result in a failing grade and may be reported to the University for further action. If you are working on an assignment and you sincerely do not want to plagiarize but you are uncertain how to avoid it, feel free to ask me for guidance. There is no penalty in asking for help prior to submitting an as signment. However, I will not accept any excuses for plagiarism after an assignment is submitted for grading. are not going to work. I evaluate plagiarism based on what you actually sub mit. Ignorance or lack of intention are not acceptable reasons for plagiarized work. Student Services: Refer to for information about: Students with disabilities Tutoring and other academic assistance Advising services for Fogelman students Technical assistance You can find information about Student Services available at the Lambuth campus at this website: Course Schedule Pay attention to the chapters covered on the weekly quizzes -- we are not co vering all the chapters in the textbook. Date Topics and Assignments Aug 24 30 Discussion 1 Aug 27 30 Quiz Ch. 1: Managing Human Resources Aug 31 Sept 6 Discussion 2 Sept 3 6 Quiz Ch. 3: Providing Equal Employment Opportunity & a Safe Workplace Sept 7 13 Discussion 3 Sept 10 13 Quiz Ch. 4: Analyzing Work & Designing Jobs Sept 16 Case Assignment # 1 Due Sept 14 20 Discussion 4 Sept 17 20 Quiz Ch. 5: Planning for & Recruiting Human Resources Sept 21 27 Discussion 5 Sept 24 27 Quiz Ch. 6: Selecting Employees & Placing Them in Jobs Sept 28 Oct 4 Discussion 6 Oct 1 4 Quiz Ch. 7: Training Employees Oct 7 Case Assignment # 2 Due Oct 1 5 18 Oct 19 25 Discussion 7 Oct 22 25 Quiz Ch. 11: Separating & Retaining Employees Oct 28 Case Assignment # 3 Due Oct 26 Nov 1 Discussion 8 Oct 29 Nov 1 Quiz Ch. 12: Establishing a Pay Structure Nov 2 8 Discussion 9 Nov 5 8 Quiz Ch. 13: Recognizing Employee Contributions With Pay Nov 1 1 Deadline to send Final Project topic to instructor for approval Nov 9 15 Discussion 10 Nov 12 15 Quiz Ch. 14: Providing Employee Benefits Nov 18 Case Assignment # 4 Due Nov 19 22 Quiz Ch. 15: Collective Bargaining & Labor Relations Dec 2 Final Project Due