#http://www.memphis.edu/summer/information.php
More Information - Summer School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Summer School New Incentives 3+3 Scholarship Calendar Contact Home Summer School More Information Summer Classes Visiting Students The University of Memphis (UofM) offers undergraduate, graduate, and law courses through more than 40 academic departments. You can take courses in traditional classroom settings on our attractive main campus or Lambuth campus (Jackson, TN), or at several satellite locations within the Memphis area. Further, we offer a variety of online courses in case you wish to earn college credit remotely. Summer Offerings Find out what's being offered. If you have not yet been accepted for admission and received information on establishing your Username and Password for the myMemphis portal, use the Class Schedule Search . If you have established your Username and Password, login to the myMemphis portal and use the Look Up Classes feature. Dates, Deadlines, and Sessions Refer to the Summer 2015 Dates &amp; Deadlines calendar for class meeting and other important dates. Our Summer term consists of several "parts of term." Visit Parts of Term to understand the differences. Transfer Credit If you're taking a course for your own personal interest or benefit, then this step is not a great consideration for you. However, if you're taking a course to apply toward your degree, check with your university to see if it will accept the UofM course as the equivalent of one of its own. It's up to your university, not UofM, to determine if our course will satisfy your degree requirements. Our Undergraduate and Graduate course descriptions can be found online. If your university wants to see a course syllabus, you will have to contact the instructor or the department offering the course. Departmental web page links can be found here . Admission Since you are not pursuing a degree here, apply for admission as Non-Degree Seeking . This means that, once admitted, you will not have to be advised by a UofM advisor. However, it also means that you cannot actually register until April 15, 2015 . Your Transcript from Your Home Institution As a visiting student, you aren't required to send us a copy of your transcript when you apply. However, any course you want to take here may require proof of your having met course prerequisites at your home university. For this reason, we strongly suggest that you send a copy of your transcript, even unofficial, to our Admissions Office when you apply. Registration Register for classes through the myMemphis portal. Refer to this Registration Quick Guide once you have been admitted and have established your portal Password (instructions will be mailed to you by Admissions). Fees and Fee Payment Visit the Bursar's website for information on fees, payment deadlines, and methods of payment. Transferring Credit to Your Home Institution To transfer your credit home, request an official UofM transcript. (You do not have to wait until the end of Summer to do this: submit your request early and indicate that you want the transcript sent once Summer grades are official.) Admissions Apply for admission to the UofM Schedule of Classes See what classes are offered this summer Registration Follow these steps to register for classes Visiting Students Just stopping by for the summer? Registration info here. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .