#http://www.memphis.edu/msci/news/ams2015.php
AMS Sectional Meeting - Math Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News News &amp; Events Departmental Calendar Academic Calendar Plenary Talks PRMO 2015 Conference 2015 AMS Conference Home Math Sciences News &amp; Events AMS Sectional Meeting American Mathematical Society Fall Southeastern Sectional Meeting October 17-18, 2015 The Department of Mathematical Sciences welcomes all participants to this sectional meeting of the American Mathematical Society. This page is designed to provide local information for our visitors. For complete conference information, including registration , accomodation , and conference program , please visit the AMS website . See also the summary of the special sessions . Registration is in the attrium outside of the Psychology Auditorium , between the Psychology building and Dunn Hall. Accommodation . There are two on-campus hotels, the University Holiday Inn and Fogelman Executive Conference Center &amp; Hotel . Other hotels close to campus include: Doubletree Suites (3 miles from campus), 5069 Sanderlin Avenue, 901.767.6666 Hampton Inn (3.3 miles from campus), 5320 Poplar Avenue, 901.683.8500 Courtyard by Marriott (5.1 miles from campus), 6015 Park Avenue, 901.761.0330 La Quinta Inn (5.3 miles from campus), 1236 Primacy Parkway, 901.574.0330 Hyatt Place (5.5 miles from campus), 1220 Primacy Parkway, 901.682.2760 The last three listed are in the Saint Francis Hospital area, near Park and Ridgeway, where several fine dining establishments are also located. We will endeavor to have shuttle service provided between the Doubletree Suites and Hampton Inn hotels and the university campus. Note: the AMS Meeting is held on the same weekend as the biggest local football game of the year, with the Memphis Tigers hosting the University of Mississippi. As a result, hotel rooms in the U of M area may be filling up quickly. We recommend making reservations as early as possible . For more general information, including campus maps , directions to the university , on and off-campus dining options , and local attractions , please see the Visitor Information page . Parking is free throughout Saturday and Sunday in the main Central Avenue Parking lot , which is on the north side of the campus, adjacent to the Holiday Inn. However, only guests of the Holiday Inn should use the Holiday Inn parking lot. There will be a reception at the Fogelman Center , 6:15-8:15 pm, October 17. Eveyone is invited. Wireless access is available via the uom-guest network. Participants can also use the computers in Dunn Hall 207, where limited printing services are also available. The Department of Mathematical Sciences wishes to acknowledge the contributions of the College of Arts and Sciences and the Fogelman Business School, both of which have been of great assistance in assuring the sucess of this conference. News &amp; Events Departmental Calendar Academic Calendar Plenary Talks PRMO 2015 Conference 2015 AMS Conference Contact Us How to contact us, and whom to contact about what. Student FAQ Student resources for advising, tutoring, and registering for classes. ALEKS Information on the ALEKS computerized placement test. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .