#http://www.memphis.edu/music/fac-staff/bios/shiu-t.php
Timothy Shiu - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Faculty and Staff Alphabetical Applied Music Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Class Piano Composition and Theory Conducting Jazz Music Education Music History Music Industry Home Music Faculty and Staff Timothy Shiu Timothy Shiu (M.M.) Violin Phone (901) 678-3731 Email tshiu@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-3096 Office MU 237 Office Hours Contact Mr. Shiu for appointments. About Timothy Shiu Timothy Shiu, Associate Professor of Violin and a member of the Ceruti String Quartet, received his principal training from the Juilliard School, the Peabody Conservatory, the Cleveland Institute of Music, and Yale University, where he graduated summa cum laude with a B.A. in English. Mr. Shiu brings together in his artistry a diverse lineage of influences from his various principal mentors. As a result of his early formative years of study with Louise Behrend, he traces a line through her teacher, Louis Persinger, to the Franco-Belgian school of Eugène Ysaÿe. In addition, his work under the tutelage of Donald Weilerstein connects him to the highly influential school of Ivan Galamian and Dorothy Delay. Further study with Victor Danchenko has brought him into contact with the Russian school of David Oistrakh. Other major teachers include Sindey Harth and the late Joseph Fuchs, who himself was a pupil of the legendary Franz Kneisel. An active recitalist and chamber musician, Mr. Shiu has concertized extensively throughout the United States in venues including Lincoln Center's Alice Tully Hall, the Kennedy Center's Terrace Theater, the Aspen Music Festival's Harris Hall, the Interlochen Arts Institute's Corson Auditorium, the New School's Schneider Concert Series, and Chamber Music Northwest. International engagements have included performances in Italy, Japan, Korea, Canada, and Brazil. Mr. Shiu is currently a member of the Ceruti String Quartet and was also previously a founding member of the Maia Quartet, with whom he played for thirteen years. In addition, he has collaborated with members of the Guarneri, Muir, and Borromeo String Quartets, as well as with violist Roger Chase, cellist Patrick Demenga, pianist Ann Schein, and the late flutist Samuel Baron. Mr. Shiu has previously taught on the faculties of the University of Iowa School of Music and the Peabody Conservatory; and his current summer teaching engagements include the Interlochen (MI) Arts Institute and the Five Seasons Music Festival (Cedar Rapids, IA), of which he is a founding member. He was formerly Coordinator of the Summer Chamber Music Fellowship Program the Garth Newel Music Center (Warm Springs, VA), and has taught as well at the Austin (TX) Chamber Music Festival, Conservatory Music in the Mountains (Durango, CO), the South Carolina Governor's School for the Arts, and the Snowmass (CO) and University of Memphis Suzuki Institutes. Faculty and Staff Alphabetical Applied Music Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Class Piano Composition and Theory Conducting Jazz Music Education Music History Music Industry Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .