#http://www.memphis.edu/annualgiving/faqs.php
FAQs - Annual Giving - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Annual Giving Donate Now Giving Options Affinity Groups Matching Gifts FAQs Home Annual Giving FAQs FAQs • How can I make a gift? • Does the University of Memphis really need my gift? What about state funding, student tuition and the endowment? • I can't afford a big gift. Is there any point in me giving? • How does my annual gift help the different colleges, departments, and programs? • I'm a graduate of University of Memphis. Why is my gift participation so important? • Why should I make a gift and join the Alumni Association? • What is the difference between an annual, capital, campaign, or endowment gift? • How do I ensure I am listed on the Donor Honor Roll every year? • Can I make a gift in honor or in memory of someone? • I think my employer offers a Matching Gift program. Should I participate? • Is my Annual Gift tax deductible? • What is the Phonathon? • What is the fiscal year for University of Memphis? • When does Annual Giving ask for support? • I'm retired and am now on a fixed income, and I can't give a cash gift. What is the best way for me to support the University? • Are there non-monetary ways I can support the University of Memphis? • I have a different question not on this list. How can I make a gift? Give Online Give a monthly or one-time gift with your credit card through our secure online giving form . Set Up Automatic Giving Send a voided check and your giving preferences with your next gift to have your support automatically deducted from your checking account. Mail Your Gift Mail the printable giving form with your check or credit card number to: University of Memphis Foundation Department 238 PO Box 1000 Memphis, TN 38148-001 Give by Phone Call 901.678.3953 to give a reoccurring or one-time gift with your credit card over the phone. Does the University of Memphis really need my gift? What about state funding, student tuition and the endowment? While these sources contribute to the University's annual operating budget, its success depends heavily on the support of our alumni and friends. Even with these sources, we still need your gifts to provide a quality education for all who seek it. I can't afford a big gift. Is there any point in me giving? Large gifts are absolutely essential to the University's success. But, so are modest ones. The University of Memphis has more than 115,000 living alumni. When our gifts are combined, they make a significant impact for the University of Memphis. How does my annual gift help the different colleges, departments, and programs? The Academic Fund at University of Memphis supports all colleges, departments, and programs. Your gift to the Academic Fund goes where it is most needed. Also, when making your reoccurring annual gift, you have the opportunity to choose the college, department, program, or scholarship you would like to support. I'm a graduate of University of Memphis. Why is my gift participation so important? Your participation in annual giving helps safeguard the value of your degree. Annual gifts—no matter the size—add up and are an important income stream that underwrites school activities, ensures the school's fiscal health and continued excellence. Alumni participation in annual giving is measured against our peer schools. Your participation gifts also play a major role in encouraging large donors, corporations, and foundations to support the University. Every gift makes a difference in its own right and helps to inspire other donors. Collectively, thousands of individual gifts enable us to provide scholarships, services, programs and facilities for our students. All gifts help improve the quality of student life and enhance the overall college experience and institutional reputation. Why should I make a gift and join the Alumni Association? Your tax-deductible gift to the University supports the programs and priorities that benefit current students including financial aid, classroom equipment, and experience enriching programs. Your gift helps transform University of Memphis students into skilled, professional graduates. Alumni Association Memberships dues sponsor events such as the Homecoming parade, class reunions, NCAA pep rallies, and other Alumni activities and initiatives. Membership dues are not charitable contributions under IRS guidelines. What is the difference between an annual, capital, endowed, and campaign gift? Annual gifts are raised each year from alumni, parents and friends of the University of Memphis and are spent within the same fiscal year (if unrestricted). Annual gifts help provide funds to many of the programs and priorities on campus including financial aid, classroom equipment and experience enriching programs. Capital gifts are normally larger one-time restricted gifts that go toward a specific project or building. Your endowed gift is invested, and the investment income from the principle gift perpetually supports the University through underwritten scholarships, professorships, chairs, colleges, schools, and programs. A campaign gift or pledge shows your support for the University and funds initiatives within the campaign case statement. Often, campaigns are comprehensive and any gift to the university counts as participation within the campaign. How do I ensure I am listed on the Donor Honor Roll every year? Each year, send at least one gift to support the University of Memphis between July 1 and June 30, and you will be acknowledged in the Donor Honor Roll within our Annual Report. Can I make a gift in honor or in memory of someone? Yes! A tribute gift may be in honor or in memory of a former professor, family member, friend, student, or colleague. An acknowledgement will be sent to the individual whom you are honoring. Family will be notified when a gift is made in memory of their loved one. I think my employer offers a Matching Gift program. Should I participate? Yes, it is easy to find out if you work for a Matching Gift employer . If you company matches gifts, your human resources office will provide you with a matching gift form to send in with your next gift. Many companies encourage their employees to make charitable contributions by matching their philanthropic support. At the University of Memphis, donors receive credit for their employers' matching gifts. Some companies offer a 1:1, 1:2, and even 1:3 match, transforming your $50 annual gift into a $200 gift! Is my Annual Gift tax deductible? The University of Memphis Foundation is a qualified tax-exempt corporation under Section 501 (c)(3), and the University of Memphis is a tax-exempt government entity under section 501 (a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code; making your contributions tax deductible to the extent provided by law. If you received any tangible benefit in exchange for your contribution, the tax deductible amount is limited to the amount of your contribution over the stated value of the item or benefit you received. If your contribution qualified you for the right to purchase athletic tickets, Section 107 (1) of the Internal Revenue Code allows a charitable deduction of up to eighty percent (80%) of that contribution. What is the Phonathon? The Phonathon consists of a dedicated team of student employees who call alumni, parents and friends of the University year-round to help raise support for academic initiatives at the University of Memphis. What is the fiscal year for University of Memphis? Our fiscal year runs from July 1 through June 30. When does Annual Giving ask for support? You have the opportunity to give anytime by mailing a check, giving online , over the phone or by setting up an automatic reoccurring gift. We send multiple direct mail appeals each year and student Phonathon callers look forward to speaking with you all year. I'm retired and am now on a fixed income, and I can't give a cash gift. What is the best way for me to support the University? A planned gift is a wonderful way to support the University. Many donors use stock, bonds, or real estate that are generating little or no income at all to fund a charitable gift annuity that will provide a steady, guaranteed income stream for life. You might also consider including the University in your trust or will. Finally, it is very easy to make the University of Memphis Foundation a beneficiary of a retirement plan or an insurance policy. If any of these interest you, please contact Planned Giving , to get started. Are there non-monetary ways I can support the University of Memphis? Absolutely! Whether it's recommending a student to University of Memphis, setting up a summer internship at the company where you work, telling others about your positive experiences at University of Memphis, or cheering on Tiger athletic teams and academic clubs, we appreciate your support. I have a different question not on this list. Please contact Annual Giving at umannualgiving@memphis.edu or 901.678.5664. We are happy to answer your questions. Give Now Click here to make your annual gift today! Senior Class Gift Win an iPad and be recognized in the commencement program! Faculty and Staff It’s not too late to participate in this year’s campaign! Phonathon Student Callers We’re recruiting great students who enjoy talking to our alumni! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .