#http://blogs.memphis.edu/libraries/
University of Memphis Libraries | News and Events Main menu Skip to content Home University of Memphis Libraries News and Events Search for: Sep 14 2015 New to the Libraries Posted by mswrngen The new Health Sciences Library (HSL), or the Baptist Memorial Health Care Library, is on the second floor of the Community Health building on the Park Avenue Campus. The hours are 8:00 am – 8:00 pm on Monday – Thursday, 8:00 am – 4:30 pm on Friday, and closed on Saturday and Sunday. The HSL staff are John Swearengen, relocating from Communication Sciences, and Rose Moore, relocating from Math. The library has a three-story high ceiling and windows which look out onto an outdoor patio, and includes four large computer/study tables, twelve study alcoves, and three group study rooms with multimedia capability which can be reserved online at . HSL’s collection includes what was Communication Science’s collection as well as the last eight years of nursing monographs and all the nursing journals from McWherter Library. Newly available to check out at McWherter Library is Oculus Rift. The Rift is a virtual reality head-mounted display developed by Oculus VR. The Librares currently has the Oculus Rift Development Kit, which affords more flexibility and encourages creativity in the development of virtual reality environments. The Rift is only available to graduate students and faculty with a stated research interest. For more info, visit the Rift libguide:   . Other technology available to check out at the Libraries includes touch screen kits, calculators, digital cameras, STEM tech (such as soldering irons and multimeters), projectors, and HD audio recorders. Available in the Technology Sandbox, located in the McWherter Library First Floor Commons Room, are GIS, design, and data science programs, which students can access for free. Also available in the Sandbox is a 3D printing lab where students can print and scan in 3D. Emerging technology training is also available at McWherter Library. Training sessions now available include a 3D printing session, a session on GoPro cameras, a session on our circulating technology, and a session on HTML/CSS, web design for beginners. To register for free, visit: . Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | May 06 2015 Maymester at the Libraries Posted by mswrngen Need help? Ask a librarian! The Libraries will have new extended hours during Maymester! May 11 through May 29, McWherter Library will be open Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. The library will be closed on the weekends, as well as Wednesday, May 13 for Personnel Development Day and Monday, May 25 for Memorial Day. Visit our website for more information on the Libraries&#8217; hours . Need help with a paper or project? Feel free to ask a librarian any time! Visit Ask a Librarian on the Libraries’ homepage. You can chat with a librarian, text @ 901-201-5389, email us at askus@memphis.libanswers.com, or call 901-678-2208.  One-on-one research consultations can also be scheduled, and get answers to simple questions by clicking on the FAQ link. Don’t get frustrated. Ask a Librarian! If you’ve had problems with QuickSearch , please let us know! Most problems can be fixed by clearing cache; click here for directions. Posted in Alerts , Homepage , News , Research and Instructional Services | Leave a comment | May 01 2015 Extended Library Hours During Exam Week Posted by mswrngen McWherter&#8217;s 1st Floor Commons Area open 24 hours Monday, May 3 through Wednesday, May 6, the McWherter Library will be open from 7:30 a.m. until 1:00 a.m. Friday, May 1, through Wednesday, May 6, the first floor Commons Room of the McWherter Library will remain open 24 hours. After 1:00 am, students will need to present a valid U of Memphis ID to a security guard in order to enter the building. Click here for more information on the Libraries hours. Posted in Alerts , Homepage , News | 1 Comment | Apr 14 2015 The University Libraries Hosts Faculty Scholarship Week, April 13 &#8211; 17 Posted by mswrngen College of Communication and Fine Arts&#8217; faculty scholarship Each year, the University Libraries at the University of Memphis hosts an exhibition of the faculty’s scholarship from the previous year. This year, Faculty Scholarship Week will be observed April 13-17. The event celebrates the outstanding research, writing, performance and other scholarly works of the University’s faculty. Faculty-authored and created publications and works in a variety of media from numerous U of M colleges and departments will be displayed in the Ned R. McWherter Library rotunda beginning at noon on Monday, April 13. The exhibition will close on Friday, April 17, at 4 p.m. The 2015 exhibition includes scholarship from Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, College of Arts and Sciences (including Political Science, Sociology, Mathematical Sciences, Physics, Earth Sciences, English, Foreign Languages and Literature, and History), College of Communication and Fine Arts (including Architecture, Art, Communication, Music, and Theater and Dance), College of Education, Health and Human Sciences (including Counseling, Education Psychology and Research), Fogelman College of Business and Economics (including Economics, FIR, and Management Information Systems), Herff College of Engineering (including Biomedical Engineering), Loewenberg School of Nursing, School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, and the University Libraries. Faculty Scholarship Week is sponsored by the University Libraries with the support of the Friends of Libraries. For more information, contact Anna Swearengen at mswrngen@memphis.edu or 678-2744. Posted in Events , Exhibition , Homepage , News | Leave a comment | Mar 02 2015 The University Libraries Celebrates Women&#8217;s History Month 2015 Posted by jschnbel The University Libraries is pleased to participate in the U of M’s campus-wide celebration of Women’s History Month. See the full calendar of events here and visit the Libraries&#8217; Women&#8217;s and Gender Studies research guide for books, articles, web sites, videos, primary documents, and other resources about women&#8217;s history and feminist issues. In addition, we have created a special research guide featuring Tennessee women who dedicated their lives to activism and service and participated in national movements for equality. In honor of our new exhibition, “Woven Into Words: Tennessee Women Making History,” we will host a reception on Tuesday, March 3, 5:30-7:00 p.m. on the fourth floor of McWherter Library; Dr. Christine Eisel, Department of History, will share “Lessons Learned in the Archives.” Guests can explore several display cases which illustrate the impact of women like Roberta Church, Elizabeth Meriwether, Sister Hughetta Snowden, Cornelia Crenshaw, and Maxine Smith and highlight government documents relating to women’s suffrage and political history. Presented with the support of the Friends of the University Libraries. Then, on Wednesday, March 18, 11:30 a.m. , Jazmin Miller will present her original one-woman show, “The Journey of Truth,” about the life of abolitionist and activist Sojourner Truth in the rotunda of McWherter Library. Free and open to the public. In addition to attending programs, you can participate in Women&#8217;s History Month by responding to a writing prompt and/or recognizing a woman who has helped you weave your own story (submission sheets are also available in rotunda of McWherter Library). Posted in Events , Exhibition , Homepage , News , Special Collections , Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Feb 10 2015 New at the Libraries! Posted by jschnbel Spring semester is underway, and we’re working hard to increase access to scholarly resources and plan quality programming for the diverse U of M community. February highlights: Link to record: Early English Books —Over 97,000 microform titles are now searchable in our catalog, including almost every English book published from the invention of printing to 1640. New eBooks —The Tennessee Board of Regents subscribed to 177,781 titles through EBSCO, which will be available this week in the Libraries&#8217; catalog. Knowledge Unlatched — Several libraries have paid vendors to procure open access rights for eBooks as part of a pilot program. Click here for a list of available titles. Black History Month —We are posting a variety of research resources, interesting links, and upcoming events related to African American history on our social media pages throughout the month of February. Visit McWherter Library and explore our reference display and digital slideshow. RefWorks Schedule —Faculty and students can attend free workshops  throughout the semester and learn how to use RefWorks software to manage citations. Coming in March:  Exhibition Opening, Fourth Floor of McWherter Library (Tuesday, March 3, 5:30-7:00 p.m.) —Mark your calendars! The Libraries will host an opening reception for &#8220;Woven Into Words: Tennessee Women Making History.&#8221; The evening will include a presentation by Dr. Christine Eisel (Dept. of History) who will discuss the exciting online women&#8217;s history project her students are building using the Libraries&#8217; special collections. Free and open to the public. Dance Performance, Rotunda of McWherter Library (Wednesday, March 18, 11:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.) &#8211;In celebration of Women&#8217;s History Month, U of M graduate student, writer, and actress Jazmin Miller will present her original one-woman show, &#8220;The Journey of Truth,&#8221; about the life of abolitionist and activist Sojourner Truth. In partnership with the Department of Theatre and Dance and the African and African American Studies program. Free and open to the public. Roberta Church standing by a Painting of Mary Church Terrrell, National Gallery, c1976 Posted in Events , Exhibition , Homepage , News , Research and Instructional Services , Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Jan 27 2015 A Tribute to Our Colleague and Friend Betsy Park Posted by jschnbel Betsy Park’s colleagues and friends are saddened to hear of her death on Sunday 18 January 2015 from complications of a bone marrow transplant. Betsy&#8217;s distinguished 32-year tenure at the University Libraries at the University of Memphis was an inspiration to the faculty, staff, and students she served enthusiastically first as a reference librarian, then as Head of Reference, and finally as Assistant to the Dean for Planning and Assessment. Betsy modeled the characteristics she expected in other Libraries faculty: Intellectual inquisitiveness, service to others, and the drive to contribute meaningfully to the profession. In addition to her oft-cited publication, &#8220;Status of the Profession: A 1989 National Survey of Tenure and Promotion for Policies for Academic Librarians&#8221; ( College and Research Libraries , May 1991, 275-289), Betsy authored a book chapter and many journal articles, regularly presented her work at state and national conferences, and was active in a variety of professional organizations. She was a respected colleague; Libraries faculty and staff actively sought her advice and counsel. Her door was always open, and she went out of her way to welcome and mentor junior faculty members. In her role as Head of Reference, Betsy was a strong and charismatic leader; she was always available, fair, and encouraging to members of the Department. She was a dedicated chair of the Libraries Tenure and Promotion Committee and created a writing group to facilitate and support the scholarship of Libraries faculty. Betsy lived to teach, and in addition to her innumerable presentations in classrooms, often invited students and faculty to her office to help with research-related questions. Colleagues nearby could often hear exclamations of delight as Betsy shared with her visitors new perspectives, research skills, and ways to use technology. Betsy never shied away from challenges, whether professional or personal. She was an innovative, insightful, and reliable collaborator. She was among the first librarians at the University to present online instruction to distance learning students and to be embedded in online classes, and became the go-to person for questions about RefWorks, the citation management software. Her adventurous spirit led her to serve as a Peace Corps volunteer in Gossas, Senegal, from 1966-1968; more recently, she and her husband reveled in the cultures of South Korea, Japan, France, and Hawaii. A fabulous chef and hostess, Betsy was known for dishes inspired by the culinary experiences she had while traveling. She threw great dinner parties, made pots of homemade applesauce with her granddaughters (one of her favorite traditions), and amassed an impressive collection of cookbooks. Betsy routinely shared produce from her bountiful garden, was often spotted at the Symphony and the Overton Shell, and was an avid golfer at one time. The songs of love birds filled her home, and she loved&#8211;and adopted&#8211;many dogs over the years (each a character, it seemed!). Everyone who knew her has a favorite &#8220;Betsy story.&#8221; Won&#8217;t you share yours? Posted in Homepage , News , Uncategorized | 11 Comments | Dec 17 2014 Celebrating a successful semester! Posted by jschnbel The faculty and staff of the University Libraries wish you pleasant and relaxing Winter Break and a happy New Year! Congratulations to the December 2014 graduates and their families. For our interim hours, please click here . Don&#8217;t forget to visit our exhibition, &#8220; From Active Duty to Veteran: Honoring Military Service in America ,&#8221; on view in the rotunda and on the fourth floor of McWherter Library until January 16. The Libraries continues to encourage and support undergraduate research at the University of Memphis. This semester, the Libraries was part of two honors research forums taught by Dr. Pam Dennis and Cody Behles. Professor Dennis&#8217; class, &#8220;Surviving the Research Blues: A Historical Approach,&#8221; focused on local history and civil rights issues. The students consulted the Libraries&#8217; special collections and other primary resources to inform their final projects, which they presented at the December meeting of the West Tennessee Historical Society. Professor Behles introduced his students to issues concerning scholarly communication in the 21st century. The class spent time in the Memphis and Shelby County Room at the Memphis Public Library examining and mapping communication networks of Memphians throughout history. For more information about undergraduate research on campus, visit the web site of  QuaesitUM , a peer-reviewed annual publication that showcases students&#8217; work in all disciplines. Dr. Dennis and her UNHP 1100 students We&#8217;re pleased to announce we have subscribed to Browzine , an app which allows users to access our paid electronic periodical content through their mobile devices in a display that emulates physical bookshelves. Thank you to all across campus who participated in the trial; your feedback was appreciated. If you have not already, download the app and follow these instructions to start browsing the Libraries&#8217; collection of journals! Feel free to contact Cody Behles (cbehles@memphis.edu) with any questions. Finally, the University Libraries is thrilled to welcome Athena the tigress back to her home in front of McWherter Library.  Athena had been away receiving much needed repairs, and she returns to the University of Memphis as a powerful symbol of wisdom. We thank artist Pam Cobb and the Friends of the University Libraries for their generous support of her care. We look forward to serving our University of Memphis communities in 2015! Posted in Events , Exhibition , Homepage , News , Research and Instructional Services , Special Collections , Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Nov 21 2014 The Libraries Honors Veterans with Exhibition and Research Guide Posted by jschnbel Veterans Day Parade, Oct. 25, 1971, Memphis.    L-R: Chester Shields, 75, WWI veteran; Bob Reese, 22; Vietnam War veteran; Fred Bauer, 87, Spanish-American War veteran The University Libraries proudly presents &#8220;From Active Duty to Veteran: Honoring Military Service in America,&#8221; an exhibition of letters, maps, photographs, pamphlets, oral histories, posters, and ephemera from the Libraries&#8217; special collections and government publications departments. Displays are located on the first and fourth floors of McWherter Library and will be on view until January 16. Click here for the Libraries’ hours. The exhibition was the focus of a special Veterans Day lecture, “War, Peace, History, and Memory: Military Service in the American Experience,” presented by historian and cataloging librarian Dr. Mark Danley in McWherter Library. Danley, who helped choose materials from the collections to include in the displays, challenged our collective tendency to regard American military history as a narrative that merely &#8220;goes from war to war.&#8221; This simplified version of our experience, Danley argued, causes us to downplay the violence faced by our military personnel during other time periods of apparent peace (like the Cold War).  He suggested as examples the continued casualties on the Demilitarized Zone on the Korean peninsula since 1953. To illustrate his point further, Danley (a veteran himself) referred to a Press-Scimitar photograph from the Libraries&#8217; special collections taken during the 1971 Veterans Day Parade in Memphis. The poignant image features a Spanish War, a World War I, and Vietnam War veteran standing together, hands clasped. He remarked, however, that even though that grouping was clearly significant, the photographer would likely not think it as significant to capture a meeting between a veteran of the Vera Cruz campaign in 1914, a veteran of the U.S. garrison in Shanghai in the 1920s, and a veteran of the Berlin garrison of the 1960s. The reasons why underscore the point that the reality of American experience with military service is more variegated than common public impressions convey. A question and answer session followed the presentation, which was the final event of the daylong campus celebration of the nation&#8217;s veterans lead by the U of M Veterans Resource Center. Check back shortly to watch a video of Dr. Mark Danley&#8217;s full lecture. In addition to the physical displays in McWherter Library, visitors can access a comprehensive  online research guide for additional resources about the time periods covered in the exhibition. We thank the Friends of the University Libraries for their continued support of our exhibitions and programs. Pasted into a WWI scrapbook Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Oct 21 2014 More Ways to Connect to Your Libraries&#8217; Resources! Posted by jschnbel We hope you had a pleasant Fall Break! As the semester progresses, we continue to offer additional ways to connect students and faculty to our resources. The University Libraries has arranged for a trial of BrowZine, a new app for mobile devices,  until November 21, 2014 . BrowZine allows users to access our paid electronic periodical content through their mobile devices in a display that emulates physical bookshelves. Sample screen from BrowZine app Here’s how to try BrowZine: From your iPad, iPhone (please note that BrowZine works best on iPad 2 or later), or Android device, download BrowZine from the App Store, Google Play, or Kindle/Amazon store and install it. When you open BrowZine for the first time, you will see a list of schools.  Select the  University of Memphis , then enter your user ID and password (same as for other University Libraries&#8217; resources). Choose the subject areas and start browsing! Don’t forget to let us know what you think of BrowZine by leaving a comment on the blog or e-mailing Cody Behles at cbehles@memphis.edu. For help finding subject-specific resources, you can explore our collection of customized online research guides. Themes of recent guides include  Network Science , the  Sociology of Gender , and  Tiger Blue Goes Green: Sustainability . The next time you’re in McWherter Library, be sure to browse our two New Additions bookcases located on either side of the Circulation desk. Acquired titles are also posted on our  Pinterest  page and often highlighted on  Twitter  and  Facebook . Research question? Keep calm and ask a librarian! Whether you are working at home or  on-campus , the University Libraries&#8217; staff is happy to help with your research. Visit our  Ask a Librarian  page for a list of FAQs and multiple ways to contact us including text, chat, and e-mail; there’s even a form you can submit if you’re having  technical difficulties  with the Libraries’ online resources. For writing help, please make an appointment with the  Center for Writing and Communication  located near the reference desk on the first floor of McWherter Library. Happy researching! Posted in Events , Homepage , News , Research and Instructional Services , Trial Resources | Leave a comment | Page 1 of 3 1 2 3 Search for: Recent Posts New to the Libraries Maymester at the Libraries Extended Library Hours During Exam Week The University Libraries Hosts Faculty Scholarship Week, April 13 &#8211; 17 The University Libraries Celebrates Women&#8217;s History Month 2015 Archives September 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 May 2014 April 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 Categories Alerts Branch Libraries Events Exhibition Homepage News Research and Instructional Services Special Collections Trial Resources Uncategorized Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS blogs.memphis.edu &copy; University of Memphis Libraries - Powered by Edublogs and WPThemes.co.nz Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search