#http://www.memphis.edu/cs/news_and_events/
Department News - Computer Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Computer Science About Future Students Current Students Research People Contact Hiring News &amp; Events Department News Upcoming Events Colloquium Undergraduate Colloquium Newsletters Home Computer Science News &amp; Events Department News 2015 Student Team Wins 2nd Place at Cyber Defense Competition A team of four Computer Science students recently won second place in the prestigious CANSec Cyber Defense Competition, held in Little Rock on Oct. 24. Undergraduates Win NSBE Hackathon Undergraduate students Herve Aniglo and Kareem Dasilva received 1st place in the first annual hackathon at the National Society of Black Engineers Region 3 Fall Regional Conference. CS Alumnus Tim Whitehorn to Speak at Entrepreneurs Lunch Tim Whitehorn, an alumnus of the Department's undergraduate program, will speak at the Crews Center for Entrepreneurship's lunch on Wed., Oct. 28. CS Names in the News Prof. Santosh Kumar and alumnus Dr. Sidney D'Mello were recently featured in online news articles. Assistant/Associate Professor Positions Available The Department is seeking candidates for multiple Assistant/Associate Professor positions beginning Fall 2016, pending availability of funds. mHealth Lab Has Three Papers Accepted at UbiComp The Mobile Health Systems Lab has had three full papers accepted to this year's prestigious ACM UbiComp conference. Prof. Kumar Named Chair of Excellence Prof. Santosh Kumar has been named the Lillian &amp; Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence in Computer Science. Authorized by the Tennessee General Assembly in March, this is the first state-endowed chair of excellence in computer science to be established in Tennessee. Over $1.8M in New Grants for 2015 The Department has about $1.87 million in new grant funding for the 2015 academic year. CS Team Wins SemEval-2015 Semantic Textual Similarity Competition A team from Prof. Vasile Rus's Language and Information Processing Lab has won the semantic textual similarity competition at SemEval-2015, the premier forum for semantic evaluation. Undergraduate Learning Center Positions Available The Department is looking for several strong undergraduate students to support instruction of our undergraduate courses beginning in the Fall 2015 semester. Research Assistant Professor Position Available The Department is seeking a Research Assistant Professor to work with the MD2K Center of Excellence. Creative Game Design Camp Attracts Local High School Students The Department held its first Creative Game Design Camp from June 1-5. U of M Partners with 100 Girls of Code The U of M has become an official chapter of 100 Girls of Code, a national organization started by the Tennessee Code Academy that aims to introduce more young women to computer science and engineering from an early age. CS Research Day Winners Winners for the 11th annual Computer Science Research Day held on April 3 have been announced. Prof. Fleming Receives Early Career Research Award Prof. Scott Fleming has been selected as a recipient of the 2015-2016 Early Career Research Award from the U of M College of Arts and Sciences. Undergraduates Participate in CCSC Mid-South Programming Contest The U of M sent two teams of undergraduate students to the CCSC Mid-South programming contest held at Hendrix College on April 10. CS Students Win at University Research Forum Ph.D. candidates Abhijit Nag and Daqing Yun received 1st and 2nd place, respectively, in the Math/Computer Science category of the poster presentation at the U of M's 27th Annual Student Research Forum held on March 30. U of M Receives Cyber Defense Research Designation The National Security Agency and the Department of Homeland Security have designated the University of Memphis as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Research (CAE/R) through academic year 2021. Prof. Kumar Helping Shape Presidential Initiative Prof. Santosh Kumar is playing a key role in President Obama's recently announced Precision Medicine Initiative. News &amp; Events Department News Upcoming Events Colloquium Undergraduate Colloquium Newsletters News &amp; Events Weekly colloquium talks and other events Career Opportunities Internship information and job postings for students Degree Programs Information on our degree and certificate programs Courses Recent syllabi for our courses Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/11/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .