#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3510002.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus Management 3510 Business Communication Fall, 2015 3 Credits Mondays - Wednesdays - Fridays 11:30am - 12:30 pm Fogelman 267 (Last updated:08/24 /2015) Instructor: Fred J. Dorn Ph.D. Cell Phone : 901 - 292 - 1666 E - mail: krerdoc@bellsouth.net Office: No Office on Campus Office Hours: Immediately before or after class meetings on Mondays/Wednesdays Course Overvie w T his is a general introductory business course in which you w ill learn the fundamentals of Business Communication Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no course pre - requisites to enrolling in this course. However, the student should have a good grasp of basic mathematics and applied writing skills. In general, it is assumed that all students who are registering for Fogelman College classes ha ve successfully completed any pre - requisites or are enrolled currently in any co - requisites associated with this course. Required Text Business Communication by Lehman and Dufrene . Cengage Learning is the publisher . 6 th Edition ISBN: 13;978 - 1 - 285 - 43272 - 4 Course Objectives : Define communication and describe the value of communication in business. Explain the communication process model and the ultimate objective of the communication process Discuss how information flows in an organization Explain how legal and ethical constraints , diversity challenges, changing technology, and team environment act as contextual forces that influence the process of business communication Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree Learning Outcomes for this course can be found at the following link: Course Methodology Primarily lecture and classroom conversation around the topic. Students are expected to attend class and engage in classroom discussion regarding the topic at hand. Student's Expectations: Students can expect the Professor to respond to them in a respectful manner attempting to mildly challenge their thinking at any given point. Students have the option at any point not to engage further in the conversation without penalty. Grading and Evaluation Criteri a Final Course Grades A= 90 - 100 point average B=80 - 89 point average C=70 - 79 point average D= 60 - 69 point average F= less than 60 point average Course Topics Establishing a Framework for Business Communication Focusing on Interpersonal and Group Communication Planning Spoken and Written Message s Preparing Written Messages Communicating through Voice, Electronic, and Written Messages Delivering Good News Messages Delivering Bad News Messages Delivering Persuasive Messages Communication through Business Reports and Business Presentations Communication for Employment List of Formal Assessed Activities 5 Quizzes 3 exams 1 Final Comprehensive Exam Attendance Participation Points Assessment Questionnaires Class participation Schedule of Activities We will cover one chapter a week in the textbook that has been assigned. Final Exam Schedule December 4 - 10, 2015 Course Policies E - MAIL: You may feel free to contact me at any time through e - mail. You will recall, however, that I will have stated during the first week of class do not contact me about what was covered in class if you were absent. You were instructed to develop a buddy system so that you could communicate with each other regarding the material that was covered in class on the day(s) you were absent Attendance: Attendance is expected. This is how part of your course grade will be determined. Adding/Dropping : [ Instruct ions/information on how to add and drop classes. Recommend referencing regis trar info rmation . ] Academic Integrity: Y ou and your classmates are expected to conduct yourselves with character and integrity in academics and in everyday life. Our distinguished scholastic pursuits mean everything to the University of Memphis, and we do not take the issue of integrity lightly. You are expected to uphold our high academic standards and complete your assignments, exams and other scholastic efforts with 100% honesty. You must cite sources and acknowledge the contributions of others when used in your scholastic work. Academic disho nesty will not be tolerated on any level. By rising to these standards each and every day, you are helping to build our reputation as a world - class major research university advancing knowledge, innovation, creativity, discovery and artistic expression in the Mid - South and beyond. Participation: A portion of your grade depends upon your participation in the class. You are able to collect up to 50 points towards class participation. The process for accomplishing this task will be reviewed in class. Classroom or Online Behavior: Students are expected to conduct themselves in a manner that they are mature young adults prepared to study the topic at hand. Late Assignments: Assignments are expected on the date designated. You will lose one letter grade for each day the assignment is late. Extra Credit: There are no additional opportunities for extra credit. There are a sufficient amount of opportunities to gather credit towards a good grade in this class. Reporting Illness or Absence: Drop me an e - mail at krerdoc@bellsouth.net if your need to notify me regarding an absence or illness. Inclement Weather: I will leave this to your best judgment. If you feel that travel conditions are a threat t o your safety then do not travel to class. Simply drop me an e - mail indicating that you will not be attending class due to inclement weather or other circumstances as they might be. Syllabus Changes: There will be no changes to the Syllabus Student Services Students with Disabilities Any student who anticipates physical or academic barriers based on the impact of a disability is encouraged to speak with the course instructor privately. Students with disabilities should also contact the campus Disabi lity Resources for Students (DRS) office. Contacting the DRS offices for The University of Memphis: DRS Website Main Campus, 110 Wilder Tower, Phone: 901.678.2880 Tutoring and other Academic Assistan ce In addition to assistance from your instructor, the Educational Support Program (ESP) at the University of Memphis provides academic assistance for all enrolled students. ESP free services are available to graduate and undergraduate students. For more information: go to 217 Mitchell Hall, call 901.678.2704, or visit the ESP website . Advising Services for Fogelman Students The Undergraduate Student Services Office (USSO) with the Fogelman College is the academic home f or undergraduate students who have chosen to major in one of the fields of study offered by the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. USSO'S mission is to academically advise and to personally empower students to achieve their academic goals. The Fogel man College offers a comprehensive range of services to help students make informed decisions about their academic coursework and careers. Technical Assistance Students needing technical assistance can contact the ITS Service Desk while using the followin g ways: Phone: 901.678.8888 ITS Service Desk Website Walk - in: Administration Building (West Entrance) on the main campus in Memphis. Walk - in hours are Monday Friday, 8am 7pm. May be closed for holidays. Online Chat (Available Monday Friday, 8am 6pm)