#http://www.memphis.edu/admissions/pdfs/checklist-3.pdf
STEP 1 - I understand that since I was unable to attend after applying and paying the application fee, or I missed attending at least one fall or spring semester that I will need to reapply for admission. I understand that I may miss attending the summer term without having to reapply. I r eviewed the Academic Programs that most interest me at: ugcatalog/collegeprog I am m ost interested in: 1 st Choice: 2 nd Choice: I explored the Career Services web site in order to help me make a more informed decision when choosing my major at: I r eviewed the Undergraduate Catalog at: STEP 2 - APPLY FOR RE ADMISSION I r eviewed Rea dmission Requirements at: I r eviewed Residency Information at: I understand that the Office of Admissions will determine my residency based on the complete Tennessee Board of Regents policy at: TBR Residency Policy I know the deadline for submitting an application for: Fall is - July 1 Spring is - December 1 Summer is - May 1 I understand that early submission of my application is encouraged due to the time required for additional documents to be requested and sent to the Office of Admissions. As a resident of Desoto, Marshall, Tunica or Tate County in Mississippi or Crittenden County in Arkansas, I r eviewed information on the Border County Tuition Waiver at: I am ready to apply at: STEP 3 TRANSFER CREDIT I understand that if I took college credits at another credited institution of higher education, during my absence from the U of M that will need to have a transcript sent to the University of Memphis. I reviewed the Transfer Equivalency Table, to better understand how my credits may transfer, at: http: // I realize that only an admissions analyst can accurately determine how credits will trans fer by completing a transfer credit evaluation after receiving all transcripts from institutions attended since last attending the U of M. STEP 4 WHAT TO EXPECT I r eceived notification (either e - mail or letter) that my application has been received. Upon receiving an application, I realize it may take 1 - 3 business days before it can be reviewed by the Office of Admissions . I realize that the Office of Admissions requires other documents before a decision can be made regarding my application. I understand that I will receive notification (either e - mail or letter) informing me what is required before an admission decision can be made. I have received my admission decision letter from the Office of Admissions. STEP 5 AFTER ACCEPTANCE I reviewed the Advisor Locator form at: My advisor is: I understand that I must speak with an advisor prior to registration f or information on recommended courses and course prerequisites. In order to register for class, I understand that I will need to initialize my U of M account by going to: . My activation account code was provided in my acceptance letter. Once activated, I can register at: . site at: . I will have my ID Card made in room115 Wilder Tower. I have reviewed the Campus Card web site for information at: I understand p arking i s included in tuition and fees. payment deadlines at: http:// .memphis.edu/ bursar NOTES: Readmission - Tiger Tracks Check List ADMISSIONS Wilder Tower Room 101 (901) 678 - 2111 Submit your application for admission early . The deadlines for submitting an application are July 1 for fall, December 1 for spring, and May 1 for summer . You will receive an acknowledgement that we have received your application and fee. You will then be notified of required documents needed to process your applicat ion. After all documents are received and the application has been processed, you will be notified of the admission decision. PLACEMENT TESTING Brister Hall Room 1 12 (901) 678 - 2028 After admission, some students will need to take a placement examination before choosing classes. All students will be required to take the ALEKS Math Placement Test. The appropriate office will contact you if the test is required. ADVISING & REGISTRATION Advising will be determined based on into. A traditional readmitting student will meet with the advisor in the department of their major. Readmitting students should refer to their acceptance letter for the most current information regarding who they should contact for advising. Registration for readmitting students should take place as soon after advising as possible. You will register for your classes by using myMemphis , the U of M online r egistration s ystem. Students who register early get the best schedules, so you should complete all admission requirements as early as possible. SCHOLARSHIPS Wilder Tower Room 201 (901) 678 - 3213 Scholarships are awarded based on information provided on the admission application. A separate scholarship application is not required. If it is determined you are scholarship eligible, you will receive notification from the Scholarship Office. FINANCIAL AID Wilder Tower Room 103 (901) 678 - 4825 C omplete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . Check the Financial Aid web site for additional information . FEE PAYMENT Wilder Tower Room 115 (901) 678 - 5579 You will be notified via your UofM email account when your electronic invoice is available online. web site for additional information. Readmission - Tiger Tracks Locator