#http://www.memphis.edu/development/options/colleges-schools.php
Colleges and Schools - Development - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Development Donate Now Giving Options Inside the Office of Development Ways to Give Home Development Giving Options Colleges and Schools Colleges and Schools Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law - The Cecil C. Humphrey's School of Law, recently named one of "America's Best Values" by National Jurist magazine, relocated in 2010 to a $48 million, 160,000 square foot, state-of-the art facility in a fully-renovated historic building in downtown Memphis. Support School of Law ... For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law. College of Arts and Sciences - The College of Arts and Sciences is the largest college with 24 academic units, ROTC, and multiple research centers, including two Centers of Excellence. It awards nearly 500 undergraduate degrees per year and offers a comprehensive liberal arts curriculum to equip its students in pursuing rich personal and professional lives. Support CAS ... For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the College of Arts and Sciences. College of Communication and Fine Arts - Established in 1977 and offering both undergraduate and graduate degrees, the College of Communication and Fine Arts houses the Art Museum, the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology, the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music, and the departments of Art, Architecture, Communication, Journalism and Theatre &amp; Dance. Support CCFA ... For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the College of Communication and Fine Arts. College of Education, Health and Human Sciences - The founding program of the University of Memphis, the College dates back to 1912, when West Tennessee State Normal School first opened its doors to students. The College is home to 11 nationally recognized teacher education programs. It is also home to the Barbara K. Lipman Early Childhood School and Research Institute and the Campus Elementary School, which are among fewer than 100 cutting-edge university laboratory schools in the U.S. Support COE ... For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics – The Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics is proud to be fully accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), an honor earned by less than 5% of business school world-wide. It is composed of six departments and provides a unique Complete Professional Program that holistically prepares undergraduate students with the tools to achieve both personal and professional excellence. Through the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center, FCBE provides training on ethics, healthy living habits, business etiquette, resume building, professionalism, philanthropic activities, and more. The Fogelman College offers a comprehensive portfolio of graduate programs including six different tracks to earn a MBA. Fogelman boasts the largest number of MBA graduates in Tennessee. Furthermore, the College works very closely with Memphis-area companies, many of them Fortune 500, to offer students invaluable hands-on learning experiences from professionals in these industries. Support FCBE ... For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics. Herff College of Engineering - The Herff College of Engineering offers both undergraduate and graduate programs and serves the educational and research needs of the industrial community, the metropolitan area, the state and the nation. Support Herff ... For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Herff College of Engineering. Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management - The Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management at the University of Memphis is a prominent program providing a contemporary hospitality education, with an emphasis on lodging and resort operations. Support Kemmons Wilson School .. For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management. University Libraries - The University Libraries include the award-winning McWherter Library and five branch libraries. In addition to serving the University of Memphis, the libraries serve students and faculty at other educational institutions, local and regional corporations, governmental agencies, and citizens of the community. Support the Libraries ... For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the University Libraries. Loewenberg School of Nursing - The Loewenberg School of Nursing offers both the Bachelor and Master of Science in Nursing degrees as well as the Executive Master of Science in Nursing Administration. Both graduate and undergraduate students benefit from exceptional learning opportunities at healthcare agencies in the Memphis area, including 10 major hospitals. Support the School of Nursing ... For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Loewenberg School of Nursing. The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music of The University of Memphis is staffed with an outstanding faculty of artists and Pedagogues. It is the largest music program in the state of Tennessee and one of the largest in the southeastern United States. Currently we have over 500 majors with forty-five full-time faculty and more than twenty adjunct instructors. The School of Music is the only institution in the state that offers a doctoral degree in music. Activities abound in our department with more than 300 concerts, recitals, and other special events each year. Support the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music .... For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders – The School of Communication Sciences and Disorders became part of the University in 1967. U.S. News &amp; World Report ranked the U of M's audiology program eighth in the nation; the speech pathology program is ranked thirteenth nationwide. The school offers graduate programs leading to Ph.D., M.A. and Au.D. degrees with concentrations in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology. Support the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders ... For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. School of Public Health – Established in June 2009, the School of Public Health serves a unique mission to educate the next generation of leaders in public health with a focus on urban health and health equity. Within our urban-serving institution, University students and faculty seek to translate their research into life-changing discoveries and interventions that affect the full scope of society. Support SPH ... For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the School of Public Health. Student Affairs - The Division of Student Affairs provides services, programs, and activities that support all schools and colleges by building on the university's academic base. The division strives to consider all aspects of a student's life at the university, always trying to be mindful of the "whole person" and the role the university can play in a student's development as an individual, working and living responsibly within a community. Support Student Affairs For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the Student Affairs. University College - The University College offers individualized and interdisciplinary degree programs, enabling University of Memphis students to pursue a wide range of studies and shape degree programs that build upon prior experience and knowledge. The College has two undergraduate degrees, the Bachelor of Professional Studies and the Bachelor of Liberal Studies, which offer more than 20 degree concentrations. Support University College ... For more information on options, please contact the Director of Development for the University College. Staff Directory Meet the Development Staff University of Memphis Foundation Learn about the University of Memphis Foundation Alumni Association Learn about the Alumni Association Glossary Click here for a Glossary of Terms Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .