#http://www.memphis.edu/professional/programs/kgdgt_s15.php
Know Good - Do Good - Thrive - PDC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center Welcome Programs Internships Career Coaching Success Stories Events FCBE Community Partners Media Suits For Success Complete Professional Program Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters Other Programs Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Futures in Finance Moving into Management Technology Careers In Business Women in Action Students 4Cs Lecture Series General Information Know Good—Do Good—Thrive Peer Power Success Stories Career Planning Contact Us Home PDC Programs Know Good - Do Good - Thrive Know Good - Do Good - Thrive Fogelman’s Know Good — Do Good — Thrive program was conceived by Harry Smith, Executive-in-Residence at the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics. This program includes lectures delivered to students, faculty and staff on the Know Good – Do Good – Thrive concept: If a professional does the right thing on a continual basis, he or she will be successful. The program, led by Smith, is presented through in-class lectures. As a corporate chairman, Smith managed more than 1,000 employees and $150 million in revenue and became successful promoting and practicing the ideology of the program. The Know Good – Do Good – Thrive in-class presentations aim to communicate this message to graduating seniors. By attending the sessions, students learn how to put these principles in practice to become successful in the business community. For The Complete Professional Program certificate, ethics lectures are incorporated into core classes for all levels of students. Our Ethics Executive in Residence, Mr. Harry Smith, addresses all seniors in our Strategic Management classes. Spring 2015 Ethics Workshop With International Paper International Paper, known for its 8-year listing with Ethisphere for being one of the world’s most ethical companies, will be presenting a workshop series for faculty and students on Thursday, March 26. Senior Vice-President and General Counsel, Sharon Ryan, and Deputy Ethics and Compliance Officer, Karen Edwards, will present how this Fortune 100 company developed a culture of ethics for a global organization. The event is free but you must register to attend. To register, students should click on the “register here” button to the right. Faculty registration is through professional@memphis.edu Spring 2014 Ethics Workshop For Faculty and Students International Paper General Counsel and Senior Vice President, Sharon Ryan, and HR and Global Policy Chief Counsel, Nicole Walthour, will present interactive Ethics workshops for faculty and students. This innovative workshop series was valuable as International Paper has been named as to the Ethicsphere’s list of most ethical companies for the past 8 years. Click here for Fall 2014 Ethics Programs. The Know Good - Do Go - Thrive series is one option for students to meet the requirements for The Complete Professional Program certificate. If you are an employer and would like to be involved in our Fall 2015 Ethics lecture series, please contact Dr. Kathy Tuberville . Students, for more information, contact the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Center , room 274, or call 678-4740. Community Partners Media Suits For Success Complete Professional Program Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters Other Programs Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Futures in Finance Moving into Management Technology Careers In Business Women in Action Students 4Cs Lecture Series General Information Know Good—Do Good—Thrive Peer Power Success Stories Career Planning Contact Us Community Partners For employers looking to hire professional and polished interns, information on Professional Development, and Suits for Success Student Engagement For students looking to get invovled in Peer Power, The Complete Professional Program, and Student Organizations Student Success Stories Learn more about your peers and their successes with our program! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .