#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS8640001.pdf
!"! Course Syllabus MIS 8 640 Ð Information System Management and Planning Fall Semester, 201 5 3 .0 Credit Hours Instructor: Dr. Bill Kettinger, FedEx Endowed Chair and Professor of BIT Office: Room 346, Fogelman Business Building Phone: 901-678-4547 E-mail: bill.kettinger@memphis.edu Teaching Graduate Assistant: Ruby Booth E-mail : rbooth@memp his.edu Course Meetings: ¥ Monday: 7:10 PM Ð 10:10 PM FCB 369 Office Hours: ¥ Monday 2:00 PM - 5:00 PM or b y appointment !Course Overview : What we know: 1) firms who deliver the right information, to the right place, at the right time, have more effective business processes; 2) firms that train their people to effectively use information and technology are more agile; and, 3) firms that lever age network relationships via IT can establish competitive advantage. Therefore, Strategic Information Systems (IS) Management is a critical activity of the knowledge -based enterprise. However, with the heightened role of IS come both opportunities and un certainties for business leaders who often question the potential impact, cost, and applicability of a broad spectrum of IT for strategic information management. This course addresses critical strategic IS management issues by providing students with overa rching evaluative framew orks combined with a practical Òreal worldÓ approach. Skills developed in this course will aid future IS practitioners and scholars in evaluating IT and information management strategies and in improving business processes. This cou rse specifically will address information systems planning and management for the corporate executive and information systems manager. Topics will emphasize strategy and information systems, information as a critical resource, and it s role in policy and pl anning. The role of competitive, environmental, !#!organizational and social issues in business strategy, planning and success, as related to the role of information and IT will be addressed. !Course Prerequisites: MIS 7605, MIS 7610 !Texts and Related Material s: ¥ I am avoiding th e use of a traditional text ($20 0+ price range) . In addition, I will provide you with most reading materials tha t will be needed in the class. While I will continue to try to keep your materials at a low cost , I reserve the right to ask you to purchase additional materials as the semester progresses ; ¥ You must purchase 3 chapters from the Legerity Publishing online book ÒGuiding the Digital Transformation of Organizations" (2012) by V. Sambamurthy and R . Zmud : 1) The Extended Digitized Enterprise; 2) IT Infrastructure ; and 3) Building Business Cases for IT Investment Proposals -the -digital -transformation -of-organizations -chapters/#chapters (each chapter cost s $3.50) ; ¥ You must also purchase 4 teaching cases from Harvard Business School Press each at $3.95 . Please follow this link to access the HBSP website. First register on the HBSP site and then acquire cases. ¥ Supplemental books (Not required but helpful for those wanting to dig deeper) : Marchand, Kettinger and Rollins, Making the Invisible, Visible: How Companies Win with the Right Information, People and IT. John Wiley & Sons Ltd., Chicester, 2001. ISBN# 0 -471-49609; Ross, J., Weill, P. and Robertson, D. (2006). Enterprise Architecture as Strategy: Creating a Foundation for Business Execution. Harvard Business Press. [ISBN -13: 978-1591398394]; ¥ Supplemental readings: articles, case s, and Internet resources will be utilized throughout the course. Course Objectives: The objectives of this course are : ¥ To explore the impact of strategic applications of IT and information management on organizations and to introduce methods for leveraging information resources in support of competitive strategies. ¥ To provide future managers with frameworks that will allow them to position rapidly changing information technologies where th ey will have the greatest strategic benefit. ¥ To explore conc epts associated with effective information m anagement. ¥ Recognize how enterprise IT architecture acts as an integral part of strategic management. ¥ Understand why comprehensive IT governance imp acts organizational success. ¥ Analyze and critique different approaches to designing and governing enterprise IT, as documented in published case studies. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree : This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the MSBA degree offered at the Fogelman College. You should take time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a MSBA student. See: !$!Course Methodology: The course will consist of a combination of lectures, in -depth discussion of real -world business problems as outlined in case studies and spontaneous active learning exercises. Mastery of the assigned material will be determined primarily by student performance on exams and the quality of participation on case discussions and contribution on presentations and projects. Analytical writing and presentation skills will provide an integral resou rce for completion of projects. ProfessorÕs Expectations: You should assist the instructor in creating a positive, supportive environment for learning. Past experience with graduate students has proven that the professor , as course instructor , will serve as only one source of the classÕs learning. A portion of learning will also derive from in -class discussions, the discussions held in informal conversati on and group meetings, as well as from individual contemplation o f course readings and projects. All participants in the class should be considerate of the other class participants and treat them (as well as their opinions) with respect. The class will op erate under the assumption that any and all feedback offered is positive in nature and that the intentions of the person(s) providing feedback are strictly honorable. Insensitivity in this area will not be tolerated. Please do not use electronic devices i n the classroom ; thes e include but arenÕt limited to wireless devices such as cell phones, music players, tablets and laptops (for any use other than taking notes or other class related activities Ð no chatting online during class!). !Schedule of Class Activ ities : A specific schedule of class activities will be provided (see the e Courseware class website ). The instructor reserves the right to make changes in this schedule as circumstances dictate. The e Courseware class website will update periodically so check for new materials or changes daily. Changes will also be announced in class. Any student not attending class is responsible for obtaining this information. Grading and Evaluation Criteria : Graded S tudents Activities: Exams and Quizzes: 35% Projects and Assignment: 45% Class Participation and Case Discussion: 20% Final grades will be based an average score of course requirements. Please discuss any concerns you may have about the grading policy as early as possible in the semester. The follow ing grading scale will be used. Points percentage Letter grade 90 - 96.9; 97 Ð 100 A, A+ 80 - 86.9; 87 - 89.9 B, B+ 70 - 76.9; 77 - 79.9 C, C+ 60 - 66.9; 67 - 69.9 D, D+ /(82416&$10&8()#2&?'$0#94'&?%%4%($1'# &¥ ?03 4%416&.#234'#%&782&*86#"9$1&.(/0#1(% &¥ >#')14'$"&?%%4%($1'# &