#http://www.memphis.edu/processimprovement/faq.php
Frequently Ask Questions - Process Improvement - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Process Improvement Staff Directory Teams Project Reports/Updates FAQs Home Process Improvement Frequently Ask Questions Frequently Ask Questions Why Process Improvement Initiatives? The focus is major administrative processes, and particularly those that cut across many units, in an effort to realize significant gains in efficiency and effectiveness. Improving business processes enables you to increase your responsiveness to your customers and the productivity of your employees doing the work. This work was initiated by the President's office and the members of the Executive Council in early December 2009 to review and improve major process improvements across the entire institution. Is this part of a larger university-wide effort and/or linked to the university strategic plan? Yes. the university strategic plan ( sets the course for its second century and provides a vision of being recognized as one of America's great metropolitan research universities. The strategic plan encompasses six goals: Student Success; Research and Creativity; Access and Diversity; Partnerships; Campus Culture and Service Excellence; and Sense of Place. Student success, research, and creativity are at the core of the university's purpose as it educates students through the advancement of knowledge and expression. Access and diversity reflect its mission and values by expanding educational opportunities in an environment that embraces differences. These goals cannot be accomplished without proper support – embracing shared governance, a commitment to open decision making and adhering to standards of high quality service. The realization of each of these goals also requires a safe, healthy, and inviting community – a sense of place. Together these six goals mutually reinforce one another to become an integral part of a dynamic, effective plan. This initiative is a core strategy of the Campus Culture and Service Excellence goal. What can senior leaders and administrators do to encourage project success? Support the projects! Without your help, the project will take longer (and time is critical) or will not be successful. Research on change efforts in organizations suggests that teams whose projects are driven and heavily supported by top management are more likely to succeed. Over time, we will develop opportunities for leadership to visibly demonstrate support for this work. What will be the biggest obstacle to our success in major process improvement? Research indicates that resistance to change within the organization is six times more often the primary obstacle. Resistance comes in many forms, including organizational inertia, culture, front-line resistance and management resistance. It can be both passive and overt. How will this impact faculty and staff? Many will be asked to be involved in the work of process improvement. More generally, we will all be required to do things differently, and sometimes do different things in our work. How will this affect my job here at the University? Projects are aimed at reducing the excess time you spend on a process, freeing you up to focus on other important tasks. That will reduce work beyond normal hours that you spend today. As a process is improved, you may find that you no longer need to spend time on a step as it has been eliminated, or that you now do it differently (e.g. deal only with exceptions). That is a natural part of improvement and we should all be preparing to accept changes like that going forward. How is these initiatives different from other improvement projects that the University has done in the past? These are different because we are focused on improvements that cut across the administrative units of the University. While many units, departments and divisions have very successfully improved or sustained highly effective processes, we haven't yet achieved the meaningful review and improvement of administrative processes that cut across the entire institution. As a result, we have not yet been able to capture the major gains in efficiency and effectiveness that we believe are possible. That is the focus of this effort: major gains across the institution. Suggest a Process for Improvement Governing Structure Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .