#http://act.memphis.edu/services.php
Mid South Access Center for Technology ACT :: Mid-South ACT Services :: University of Memphis Skip to Navigation. | Skip to Main Content. | Skip to Search Form. Mid-South ACT Home About ACT VATR Lab Services Information News &amp; Newsletters Contact Us Donations A - Z U of M Quick Links ------------------ Outlook Bursar's Office Events Calendar Jobs eCourseware (UM) eLearn (RODP) Bookstore Ask TOM Employee Self Service Campus Map Library FedEx Institute Transcripts UMdrive iAM Police Services Contact Us Mid-South ACT Services Access Model Loan Library Mid-South ACT Services Evaluations Professionally evaluate to determine what assistive technology will improve the person's ability to function in home, school and work environments. The recommendations may include: Special computer access devices and methods Adaptive software and hardware Non-computer devices to improve function in daily activities Workplace, school or home modifications Environmental controls for lights, TV's, telephones, etc. Change of method, procedure or routine Augmentative communication strategies and equipment Low vision aid evaluation (e.g. CCTV) Seating and positioning Installation and Configuration of Assistive Technology Set up and install equipment Provide technical assistance and troubleshooting Serve as liaison between adaptive equipment manufacturers and the customer Client Training Provide instruction related to assistive technology and methods. Areas of emphasis include: Instruction in the use of assistive technology Practice focused toward vocational skills Remedial training to enhance academic skills Augmentative communication Training to improve daily living skills Information &amp; Outreach Educate people with disabilities, advocates, organizations, and the general public in the use and availability of assistive technology. Specifically: Provide customers and the general community with information necessary to make informed decisions Provide in-service training for educators, therapists, counselors, etc. Participate in and co-host conferences Promote community awareness of assistive technology Research Conduct research related to the planning, development, and implementation of assistive technology and assistive technology services. Last Updated: 5/19/15