#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3510003.pdf
The University of Memphis Business Communication, MGMT. 3510 Fall 201 5 FCBE Room 267 M.W. 12:4 0pm. 2:05pm. CRN: 807483 SECTION 003 : Gilda Lewis gglewis@memphis.edu Contact: By email or appointment Befo re or after class Coordinator, Business Communication: Dr. Barbara D. Davis, Room 328 Fogelman, 901 - 678 - 3932, bddavis@memphis.edu Course Manage ment information : : Ec ourseware . Please check Ecourseware weekly for updates on assignments, interesting points about Business Communication and grades. Text book Information : . BCOM 7 . Lehman, C. M., and DuFrene, D. D. (20 1 4 ). Mason , OH : South - Western Cengage Learning . New textbook is required in order to facilitate the entire learning experience of this course. ISBN 1 3 - 978 - 1 - 305 - 40193 - 8 . The course number for logging in to the course website is, CM - 978 1305403185 - 0000033 . To access CourseMate and enro ll in this course, please go to: - SXF0LJ . Once there, click the "Dow nloads" tab, should then click the "Student Registration and Enrollment Clickpath" tab, and, finally, click the "Download File" link. Again the course number is - CM - 9781305403185 - 0000033 Course Description : Communication theory applied to business and t he professions; emphasis on effective writing; presentation of written and oral case solutions, letters, memoranda, reports, and employment applications; selection and use of research sources; consideration of business ethics, technology, and intercultural communication. PREREQUISITE: MIS 2749, or equivalent. [W] NOTE: THIS IS A WRITING INTENSIVE COURSE ! Course Goals and Objectives : To develop an understanding of the theory (principles) of effective communication and the ability to apply these principl es to the solving of management problems, especially in the form of written business messages. Although the emphasis i s not on grammar, spelling, etc., all work is expected to be correct in these areas. Objectives . Upon completion of this course, the student is expected to be able to: 1. Understand and d iscuss the communication process ; 2. Plan, organize, and write a variety of business messag es that display appropriate tones and d emonstrate the use of correct appearance in business documents; 3 . Discuss and use listening, oral , and nonverbal communication skills; 4 . Prepare and deliver an effective oral presentation using Microsoft PowerPoint ; 5 . Gather, organize, and evaluate data to write business reports; 6 . Prepare employment communication messages , including a letter of application and resume; 7. Understand and discuss effective team, interpersonal, and intercultural communication 8 . Use critical thinking , ap ply ethical approaches to solving business communication problems , an d exhibit desirable work traits (business etiquette) , which promote success in business. BBA Degree Program Learning Outcomes The learning outcomes for this degree program are located on the following URL. Not e: Goals indicate Learning Outcomes for the degree program. The objectives under each learning outcome indicate what must be done t o reach the learning outcome. Faculty members in the Fogelman College developed these learning outcomes and periodically assess students to determine the level that the learning outcomes are being met. Academic Course Requirements : Student You are responsible for all work covered in class regardless of your attendance record. You are responsible for any and all Responsibility reading and writing assignment s. You are responsible for presenting assignments on time. You are responsible for all material covered in the text. All written assignments are to be typed ( double - spaced ) and handed in on the date assigned. This syllabus is not to be considered as a contract. It is merely a guide to assist students in planning and preparing for class. With reasonable notice the syllabus is subject to change . ADA Any student who anticipates physical or academic ba rriers based on the impact of a disability is encouraged to sp eak with me privately. Students with disabilities should also contact Disability Resources for Students (DRS) at 110 Wilder Tower, 901 - 678 - 2880. DRS coordinates access and accommodations for students with disabilities. Grading : Exam 1 1 00 points Exam 2 1 00 points Class participation Attendance 100 points Textbook Exercises 100 points Written Assignments 3 00 points Presentation 200 points Final Exam 1 00 points Total 1000 points Grade for Course: Based on the percentage of total course points attained by the student. A 9 0 - 100 % B 80 - 8 9% C 70 - 79 % D 6 0 - 69 % F Below 60 % Student assignments: Written assignments are an important component of this class. Also impromptu exercises will be used to prepare students for networking and control during business occasions. Examinations : Two examinations and a final are given in this course. Exams are designed to check knowledge of specific concepts as well as comprehensive understanding of principles and interrelationships. Essay questions and all written rep orts will be graded on the basis of how logically supportive the response is to the matter described. Make - up /Missed Test Exams will be taken on E - Courseware. If for any r eason, you have a problem w ith an e - courseware exam, you must notify the instructor ASAP. If you miss the deadline for an exam, the instructor will determine if you are allowed to make up the exam with a letter grade reduction. Attendance: T hi s course demands regular attendance and participation. You will be held accountable for attendance and po ints will be deducted from your gr ade for unexcused absences, Class Attendance: 100 points towar d the final grade will be determined by attendance/class participation Written Assignments worth 3 00 points of grade a. Informational/routine message b. Unpleasant/bad news message c. Persuasive message (letter of application can substitute for this message ) d. Emp loyment communication (letter of application and resume minimum requirements) e. Student individual oral presentations (formal and informal) f. Research activity which demonstrates use of gathering, organizing, evaluating, and synthesizing information into repor t format u s ing graphics as well as APA style documentation (Team Project) g. Business etiquette and team communication activity (Networking Component ) Administrative Course Requirements: P rerequisites : Students must have earned a minimum of 45 credit hour s and have met specific course these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) comple minimum of 2.25 GPA (2.5 for accounting majors) in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1830 or 1910, and (3) 45 hours of course work including MATH 1830 or 1910, COMM 2381 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements - General Requirements). Non - Business majors must have junior or senior standing and have met specific prerequisites of courses. Students are responsible for ensuring that requir ements are met; otherwise, administrative drop actions may be implemented. A cademic I ntegrity : . Cheating and plagiarism are unacceptable in an academic environment and will not be tolerated. University regulation provides for the assignment of a failing grade for anyone found guilty of such misconduct. Please familiarize yourself with the academic policy used at the University of Memphis. onduct_process.htm S tudent C onduct : This is a profe ssional educational environment. Students may not eat in class. Professional decorum is expected during class and during discussions. Respect for all students and staff is required in this clas s. Grades will be affected by unprofessional conduct. ) P osting of G rades : E - Courseware will be used to compile grades. Assignments are expected to be placed in the appropriate dropbox on the date assigned. There will be assignments that are intended to assist you learning the materials for this class . Please be aware of the weekly assignm ents that are required in the companion website . Academic Calendar First Day of Classes Aug 24, 2015 / Mon Labor Day Sep 7, 2015 / Mon Fall Break Oct 10 - 13, 2015 / Sat - Tue Thanksgiving Holidays Nov 25 - 29, 2015 / Wed - Sun Last Day of Classes Dec 2, 2015 / Wed Study Day Dec 3, 2015 / Thur Exams Dec 4 - 10, 2015 / Fri - Thur Class Schedule Week Chapter Assignment s Week 1 Introduction to C ourse Chapter 1 Establishing a Framework for Business Communication We ekly assignment in CourseS mart (every week) Short essay what are my expectations for Week 2 Labor Day Holiday Chapter 2 Focusing on Interpersonal and Group Communication Networking assignment Teams Assigned Week 3 Chapter 3 Pl anning Spoken and Written Messages Chapter 9 Understanding the Report Process and Research Methods: Research topic chosen Topic approved by Instructor Week 4 Chapter 4 Preparing Written Messages Begin work on Resume Week 5 Exam 1 Ecourseware Chapter 5 Communicating Electronically Monday Week 6 Chapter 6 Delivering Good and Neutral Messages Business Memo (Informational) Week 7 Fall Break Oct 10 - 13, 2015 / Sat - Tue Networking assignment Week 8 Chapter 7 Delivering Bad News Message Memo: layoffs/ p lant closing/ missed revenue margins/ health care premium increasing/ other negative news Week 9 Chapter 8 Delivering Persuasive message Cover letter for job, Look up job ad and reproduce ad and cover letter for ad. (Dropbox) Week 10 Chapter 13 Prepari ng Resumes and Application Messages Exam 2 Resume completed submitted in Ecourseware drop box Week 11 Chapter 10 Managing Data and Using Graphics Week 12 Chapter 11 Organizing and Preparing Reports First draft of research paper due Team Exercise Wee k 13 Chapter 12 Designing and Delivering Business Presentations Presentation of Reports. Week 14 Presentation of Report s Week 15 Chapter 14 Interviewing for a Job and Preparing Employment Messages Week 16 Impromptu presentations Resources, Education and Writing Assistance (FREE) : APA format websites: or Alphanumeric Outline Example: Caree r Corner: Career Services: Educational Support Program (ESP) - provides academic counseling, contact information is Professional Development Center Programs: The Business Learning Center : ( R oom 256 , FCBE ) - provides tutoring in accounting, statistics, finance, management, and marketing. Writing assistance is also available in Patterson, Room 225 only . Contact number is 901.678.3912. Tutoring: General tutoring ( ) Writing and online tutoring ( ) Un iversity of Memphis plagiarism policy and helpful tutorial s : UM Policy on Plagiarism , Ho w To Avoid Plagiarism. Study efficiencies/time management - Mitchell Hall, Room 207