#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/advising/degree-certification.php
Degree Certification - CAS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Arts &amp; Sciences About Departments Research Scholarships Students Resources News Advising Links Advising Center Staff &amp; Contact Guide for Advisors Newsletter for Advisors September 2014 February 2014 Departments Finding Your Advisor First Year Students Graduation/Degree Certification Major and Minor Information Major Four Year Plans Meeting with your Advisor Pre-Professional Advising Upper Division Humanities Upper Division Social Science Withdrawal Home CAS Advising Degree Certification Degree Certification College of Arts and Sciences: General Information In the College of Arts and Sciences, the Graduation Analysts in the Dean's Office determine if students have met the requirements for graduation. After each Commencement ceremony, the analysts go over the student's record to confirm that all requirements are met, and if they are, the student is "certified" for graduation and the degree is conferred. Apply to graduate at least one year before the beginning of the expected graduation semester, by logging into myMemphis, clicking on the My Degree tab, and following the steps in the Commencement and Graduation channel. This initiates the Application to Graduate Process. As soon as possible after a student applies, the graduation analyst will fill out the student's "Summary of Coursework Remaining" and e-mail it to the student and to the advisor. You must be sure to check your University of Memphis e-mail account often after you have applied to graduate online so that you will receive important messages. Receiving a Summary of Coursework Remaining takes several months, so in our college students should apply to graduate a year before the beginning of the expected graduation semester (for example, in January 2015 for graduation in May 2016). Students' Responsibilities: You should meet with your academic advisor to review the Summary of Coursework Remaining. If there are any discrepancies between the Summary and what you and your advisor think you need to take, your advisor should e-mail casgraduation@memphis.edu with the details so that the discrepancies can be resolved. It is ultimately your responsibility to make sure that all requirements are met. You need to read and follow the Undergraduate Catalog carefully so that there are no problems. However, if you encounter any difficulties, be sure to ask your advisor for help. Ordinarily, you will follow the requirements listed in the catalog for the year you first enrolled at the University of Memphis. If you and your advisor find that a newer catalog is better for you, the advisor should e-mail casgraduation@memphis.edu with the catalog information. If you leave and then return after seven years, you will be expected to fulfill the requirements in the Catalog for the year that you return. If this happens and your requirements change, discuss your remaining coursework with your advisor. At the beginning of the semester for which you applied to graduate, you will receive an e-mail from the graduation analyst confirming that you are eligible for graduation in that term. If your e-mail says that you are ineligible, refer to the Notes section of UMdegree for the reason. It is the student's responsibility to let us know if courses are added or transfer work has been entered that should make you eligible. Students whose requirements are met at the end of the term for which they applied to graduate will be certified as graduated. If for any reason, you decide not to graduate in the term for which you applied, it is your responsibility to inform us of your new graduation date. Frequently Asked Questions What happens after I apply to graduate? The graduation analyst reviews your remaining coursework to provide a "Summary of Coursework Remaining." You should meet with your advisor to discuss this Summary. If there are any questions about the requirements remaining, ask your advisor to contact the graduation analyst so that all three of you will understand the requirements. If you are enrolled in all courses required for graduation at the beginning of the semester for which you applied, your name will be put on the graduation list for that semester. You MUST inform the graduation analyst if you decide to change to a different graduation semester : casgraduation@memphis.edu How soon will I receive my Summary of Coursework Remaining? The College of Arts and Sciences graduation analysts must go over the records of all students who apply to graduate. It may take several months for your official Summary to be e-mailed to you. You should work with your advisor to ensure that you are taking the appropriate classes. What is graduation certification? Graduation certification is the process through which each undergraduate student's grades and coursework are checked prior to issuing a diploma. Walking in the commencement ceremony does not mean that you have graduated. The Graduation Analyst must go over your coursework to ensure that all requirements have been met and that you have taken any Area Exit Exams. All transfer work must be included on your transcript in the University of Memphis system, and no "I" or Incomplete grades may be outstanding. If all of these requirements have been met, your graduation will be certified, and your diploma will be mailed by the Commencement Office approximately 8-10 weeks after the ceremony How do transfer credits apply? Taking transfer work in your last semester is not recommended, but if you choose to, you are responsible for filling out a Transfer Credit Request (TCR) form in the Admissions Office (101 Wilder Tower) and for having an official transcript sent to the University of Memphis when the coursework is completed. Students must bring a copy of the Transfer Credit Request form to Scates 107 for their name to be added to the graduation list. If the transcript with your final grade in the course(s) does not arrive by the deadline for graduation certification, your diploma will be dated the following semester. It is also your responsibility to be sure you satisfy the UM residency requirement . Transient courses do not count toward the residency requirement. How do I change my graduation date? After you have applied to graduate for a specific semester, if you want to change your expected graduation date, send an e-mail with your name, U number and expected graduation date to casgraduation@memphis.edu . It is very important that your graduation date is accurate. When is the commencement ceremony? Currently, there are commencement ceremonies at the end of Fall (December), Spring (May), and Summer (August) semesters. The Commencement Office e-mails students on the graduation list for each semester, notifying students to complete the Attendance Card and read important information on the Commencement website . How do I order my cap and gown? When you fill out the Apply to Graduateform online, you should also complete Step 3 in the Commencement and Graduation channel, which will complete the "Diploma Mailing/Cap and Gown" order form. How do I order invitations? Check the Commencement website for this information. How do I Graduate with Distinction? The student's GPA at the beginning of the final semester determines whether the student will be listed in the Commencement program with distinction. If a student's distinction changes after the final grades are entered, the degree will be certified with the appropriate distinction based on the final graduation GPA. See the details for graduating with the distinction of Cum Laude, Magna Cum Laude, or Summa Cum Laude in the Undergraduate Catalog. (Note: Grades received in a first session term are NOT factored into the GPA used for distinction.) When will I receive my diploma, and what will it say? Diplomas are ordered after the Registrar receives confirmation that you have completed your degree requirements. Your diploma will be mailed about 8 to 10 weeks after the commencement ceremony to the address you have designated on the Diploma Mailing Card. Your diploma will list the degree earned , not the major or minor. If you have more than one degree, you will receive a diploma for each. Degrees available through the College of Arts and Sciences are Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Science (BS), and Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (BS CH). Advising Links Advising Center Staff &amp; Contact Guide for Advisors Newsletter for Advisors September 2014 February 2014 Departments Finding Your Advisor First Year Students Graduation/Degree Certification Major and Minor Information Major Four Year Plans Meeting with your Advisor Pre-Professional Advising Upper Division Humanities Upper Division Social Science Withdrawal Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence you need to succeed! The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and experience you already possess? Community Engagement We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through our programs and events. Contact Us Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .