#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS8670001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MIS 7670/8670 Information Security Management Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8 / 23 /2015) Instructor: Judith C. Simon, Dr. Phone1: 901.678 - 5932 E - mail: jsimon@memphis.edu Office: FCBE 308 Office Hours: Wednesdays, 2:15 p.m. 5:15 p.m. and other days/times by appointment. Your instructor also checks email regularly (put the course number, e.g., MIS 7670) as part of the subject of your message.) Course Overview : Comprehensive survey of managerial aspects of information security in the business environment. Emphasis on managerial issues and decisions related to selecting and managing all aspects of information security. Some content will be based on ISACA materials. ISACA is a well - known organization that provides highly - valued certification examinations that are among the highest rated certificates for top salaries in IT. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: None, other than graduate admission Note 1 : Students enrolled in MIS 8670 must complete a more extensive research project. This project must meet the requirements for submission to the AMCIS conference in February. While students enrolled in MIS 7670 may do some research on topics discussed in business publications, MIS 8670 will focus on topics discussed in research publications. Note 2: Students seeking course credit to obtain the Graduate Certificate in Business Information Assurance must do the following: Submit a separate application (in addition to the application to t he Graduate School for the MSBA or any other degree being pursued) in order to be admitted to this These are separate programs, thus requiring separate forms. Prior to graduati on, submit a separate Graduate Certificate Program Candidacy Form and a separate Intent to Graduate card for the Graduate Certificate program, in addition to the form and card for any other degree. Use the same due date for the certificate forms as for th e Masters degree forms. Recommended Texts (and Related Materials) : None. Content will be provided by the instructor or will be accessed online. Location of Course Materials : Instructions for assignments will be located in eCourseware, with resources for the assignments located at a wide variety of online sites. Course Objectives : 1. To provide a firm foundation in the basic concepts of information security in organizations. 2. To establish the role of information security managers in organizations. 3. To develop skills for analyzing issues related to information security leading to appropriate decisions related to security risks and costs versus benefits of security options. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you meet the overall learning objectives for the MSBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the overall learning objects as a student in the BBA program, which can be found at the link below. MSBA PhD Course Methodology Most assignment instructions will be provided to students online, and students will upload their assignments online. Discussions and some assignments will be completed in class and cann ot be submitted later. of Students : Students are responsible for maintaining a positive approach that will provide a supportive learning environment for themselves and others. Students are responsible for following all instructions for assignments, including active participation on any team assignments or discussions and on - time submissions of good - quality individual work products. Expectations of Professor : You should expect the following from your professor: (1) An interest in helping students learn and complete the course successfully; (2) Assignments that provide current issues for the management of information security ; (3) Fair grading of points earned on each assignment, based on meeting the assignment requirements; (4) Explanations for any point reductions on an assignment; (5) regular availability by e - mail; and (6) assignment grading completed by no more than 10 days after due date (exceptions may oc cur depending on other work your professor is required to complete during the course timeframe). Grading and Evaluation Criteria Y ou will have a range of topic assignments during the course , which are your primary opportunities to earn points toward your overall point total for this course, which is the basis for the letter grades. You will probably have some tests during the course, which will be your opportunities to demonstrate what you have learned about the to pics studied during the previous weeks (test dates are shown in the schedule document in eCourseware). Final Course Grades The information below shows how final course grades are determined, based on your percentage of total points earned. Percentage of Points Earned Grade 90 100% A 80 89% B 70 79% C 60 69% D < 60% F Course Topics Course topics will primarily be directed toward educational materials provided by the ISACA organization. These materials will provide a good representation of the expectations for someone interested in pursuing employment in this area. Each assignment w ill have a ness of coverage of all requirements will be the basis for the points assigned to each assignment. Each assignment will have a specified point value. List of Formal Assessed Activities The formal assessed activities can be found in eCourseware within the Content site, the course schedule, and the Dropbox and Discussion sites. All instructions for completion and deadlines can also be found there. Schedule of Activities The schedule of ac tivities is found in eCourseware. The instructions for assignment activities can be found in the Discussion and Dropbox sites for each assignment , except for those assigned as in - class activities . Final Exam Schedule A final exam is not currently scheduled; tests during the course will serve as complete coverage of all the topics studied. Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and use their University of Memphis professor. Student email 7670 so that the professor can locate University of Memphis email address. Students are responsible for checking their email and reading these messages. Attendance: F ailure to submit assignments will result in a loss of points for that week, similar to missing a week of class. For the most points, you should be careful to read all assignment s completely and do all assignments thoroughly and on time. Obviously, in - class assignments can only be done by attending class. Quality of work is usually greater on all assignments for students who have attended classes each week. Adding/Dropping : If you have questions about adding or dropping classes, a good start would be the Enrollment Services Student Support Center website: Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. Refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Below is one of the statements: Note that using a Office of Student Conduct website ] The Fogelman College of Business and Economics (FCBE) also has information regarding academic integrity or plagiarism. You should take the time to read the information at this site: Although many of the guidelines are directed toward on - campus courses, the same general theme is the same misconduct. Particip ation: You must be actively involved throughout the course term. You are expected to participate in any and all interactive aspects of the course. You should plan to communicate regularly with the instructor as part of your experience. Check for email from your instructor daily. Also check into the course frequently for announcements ; a recommended goal is logging into the course at least three times each week. Classroom or Online Behavior: All students should be considerate of the oth er course participants and treat them and their opinions with respect. One of the best traits a manager can have is the ability to consider multiple sides of an issue and react fairly and professionally. We will adopt the assumption that all feedback is positive in nature and that the person providing feedback is doing it as an honorable contribution. If you have any questions about online communication, review the same site as above ( htt ) where you can also review Netiquette guidelines. Late Assignments: Late assignments are not accepted. You might want to think of these deadlines as somewhat like flight plans; i.e., if you arrive too late t o be allowed to board the air plane, - opportunity for extra credit described below. Extra Credit: Each assignment will have a specific point value. If you miss a submission deadline, you can do extra work related to that assignment, such as some research related to the topic. Your extra credit assignment must be submitted within one week of the due date of the assi gnment that you missed. To protect yourself from possible missed points later in the course , you may want to consider extra credit points as you do assignment s , just in case you need them at the end of the course. In that situation, e xtra credit points m ust be done , which will eliminate any points reduction for a late submission. S tudents will not be allowed to do a major project at the end of the course to make up poi nts. Reporting Illness or Absence: It is a good idea to submit assignments prior to the due date, just in case a last - minute professor if a sudden issue occu rs. Under a few conditions, a deadline extension could be considered: (1) there is concrete evidence of a last - minute emergency, and (2) the instructor was contacted prior to the due date for the assignment. Inclement Weather: If the University of Memp his makes a decision to cancel classes due to inclement weather, local radio and television media will be notified immediately. The University of Memphis has an Inclement Weather Hotline (678 - 0888) as well as TigerText, an emergency alert text message ser vice. This optional service is used in the event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing or a delay or cancellation of classes due to inclement weather or some other emergency. Syllabus Changes: Syllabus changes are rare, but occasionally are necessary during the course. If changes are needed during the course, the instructor will notify students of the c hanges by email communication. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance