#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/cas/navy.php
Navy - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions Navy NAVY (NAVY) NAVAL SCIENCE Captain Bradley C. Mai, USN, Professor of Naval Science Room 120A, Hayden Hall NAVY 1500 - Introduction to Naval Science (3) (1101). General introduction to the USN and USMC. Emphasizes organizational structure, warfare components, and assigned roles/missions of USN/USMC. Covers all aspects of naval service from its relative position within DoD to the specific warfare communities/career paths. Also includes basic elements of leadership and Navy Core Values. Designed to give student initial exposure to many elements of naval culture. Also provides conceptual framework/working vocabulary for student to use on summer cruise. COREQUISITE: NAVY 1510. NAVY 1510 - Naval Leadership Laboratory (1) (1100). Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective Naval officers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. Consists of a general leadership lab and a specific Navy or Marine Corps lab. NAVY 1600 - Sea Power/Maritime Affairs (3) (1105). A study of the U.S. Navy and the influence of sea power upon history. Incorporates both a historical and political science process to explore the major events, attitudes, personalities, and circumstances that have imbued the U.S. Navy with its proud history and rich tradition. Deals with issues of national imperatives in peacetime, as well as war; varying maritime philosophies that were interpreted into naval strategies/ doctrines; budgetary concerns which shaped force realities; and the pursuit of American diplomatic objectives. Concludes with a discussion of the Navy's strategic and structural changes at the end of the Cold War and its new focus, mission, and strategy in the post-9/11 world. COREQUISITE: NAVY 1610. NAVY 1610 - Naval Leadership Laboratory (1) (1104). Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective Naval officers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. Consists of a general leadership lab and a specific Navy or Marine Corps lab. NAVY 2500 - Naval Leadership & Management (3) (2401). Introduces the student to many of the fundamental concepts of leading Sailors and Marines, which will be expanded upon during the continuum of leadership development throughout NROTC. Develops the elements of leadership vital to the effectiveness of Navy/Marine Corps officers by reviewing the theories and parameters of leadership and management within and outside of the naval service and progressing through values development, interpersonal skills, management skills, and application theory. Practical applications are explored through the use of experiential exercises, readings, case studies, and laboratory discussions. COREQUISITE: NAVY 2510. NAVY 2510 - Naval Leadership Laboratory (1) (2206). Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective Naval officers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. Consists of a general leadership lab and a specific Navy or Marine Corps lab. NAVY 2600 - Naval Ship Systems I/Engr (3) (2205). Detailed study of ship design, hydrodynamic forces, stability, propulsion, electrical theory and distribution, hydraulic theory and ship control, and damage control. Included are basic concepts of theory/design of steam, gas turbine, diesel, and nuclear propulsion. Case studies on leadership/ethical issues in the engineering arena are also covered. COREQUISITE: NAVY 2610. NAVY 2610 - Navy Leadership Laboratory (1) (2204). Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective Naval officers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. Consists of a general leadership lab and a specific Navy or Marine Corps lab. NAVY 3000 - Naval Science Institute (8) Intensive six-week professional academic and training program conducted each summer at a Naval installation by the Chief of Naval Education and Training for students entering the two-year NROTC Programs. The Naval Science Institute is the equivalent of the NROTC Basic Course. NAVY 3500 - Navigation (3) (3301). In-depth study of the theory, principles, procedures, and application of plotting, piloting, and electronic navigation, as well as an introduction to maneuvering boards. Students learn piloting techniques, the use of charts, the use of visual and electronic aids, and the theory of operation of both magnetic and gyrocompasses. Students develop practical skills in plotting and electronic navigation. Other topics include tides, currents, effects of wind/weather, voyage planning, and an application and introduction to the international/inland rules of navigation. The course is supplemented with a review/analysis of case studies involving moral/ethical/leadership issues pertaining to the concepts listed above. COREQUISITE: NAVY 3510. NAVY 3510 - Naval Leadership Laboratory (1) Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective Naval officers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. Consists of a general leadership lab and a specific Navy or Marine Corps lab. NAVY 3520 - Evolution of Warfare (3) (3310). Traces the development of warfare to the present day. This course is designed to cover the causes of continuity and change in the means and methods of warfare. It addresses the influence of political, economic, and societal factors on the conduct of war, with significant attention focused on the role of technological innovation in changing the battlefield. Students will explore the contribution of preeminent military theorists and battlefield commanders to our modern understanding of the art and science of war. COREQUISITE: NAVY 3510. NAVY 3600 - Naval Operations & Seamanship (3) (3302). A continued study of relative motion, formation tactics, and ship employment. Also included are introductions to naval operations and operations analysis, ship behavior and characteristics in maneuvering, applied aspects of ship handling, afloat communications, naval command and control, naval warfare areas, and joint warfare. The course is supplemented with a review/analysis of case studies involving moral/ethical/leadership issues pertaining to the concepts listed above. COREQUISITE: NAVY 3610. NAVY 3610 - Naval Leadership Laboratory (1) Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective Naval officers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. Consists of a general leadership lab and a specific Navy or Marine Corps lab. NAVY 3620 - Officer Candidate School Prep (3) Designed to prepare students for success at USMC Officer Candidate School (OCS). Emphasis is placed on leadership skills, basic infantry tactics, and general subjects, including Marine Corps organization, history, customs and courtesies, and traditions. Practical application of skills such as land navigation and issuing combat orders is a central feature. PREREQUISITE: NAVY 3520 or 4520. NAVY 4500 - Naval Ship Systems II/Weapons (3) (4207). Outlines the theory and employment of weapons systems. Student explores the processes of detection, evaluation, threat analysis, weapon selection, delivery, guidance, and explosives. Fire control systems and major weapons types are discussed, including capabilities and limitations. The physical aspects of radar and underwater sound are described. Facets of command, control, communications, computers, and intelligence are explored as a means of weapons system integration. The tactical and strategic significance of command and control warfare and information warfare is discussed. This course is supplemented with review/ analysis of case studies involving the moral and ethical responsibilities of leaders in the employment of weapons. COREQUISITE: NAVY 4510. NAVY 4510 - Naval Leadership Laboratory (1) Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective Naval officers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. Consists of a general leadership lab and a specific Navy or Marine Corps lab. NAVY 4520 - Amphibious Warfare (3) (4410). Introduces students to the fundamental terms, concepts, and theories of general warfare and amphibious warfare. These terms, concepts, and theories will be applied through a historical analysis of amphibious operations, identifying the evolution of amphibious doctrine, tactics, and technology. Focuses on the evolution of the U.S. Marine Corps into a specialized amphibious force, with particular attention devoted to the structure and capabilities of the present day U.S. Marine Corps as a forward deployed and rapid deployment force and the development of Expeditionary Maneuver Warfare concepts. COREQUISITE: NAVY 4510. NAVY 4600 - Naval Leadership and Ethics (3) (4402). Completes the final preparations of Ensigns and 2nd Lieutenants. The course integrates and intellectual exploration of Western moral traditions and ethical philosophy with a variety of topics, such as military leadership, core values, and professional ethics; the UCMJ and Navy regulations; and discussions relating to the roles of enlisted members, junior and senior officers, command relationships, and the conduct of warfare. The course provides midshipmen with a foundation of moral traditions, combined with a discussion of actual current and historical events in the United States Navy and Marine Corps, to prepare them for the role and responsibilities of leadership in the naval service of the 21st century. COREQUISITE: NAVY 4610. NAVY 4610 - Naval Leadership Laboratory (1) Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective Naval officers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. Consists of a general leadership lab and a specific Navy or Marine Corps lab. NAVY 4710 - Naval Leadership Lab/5th Year (1) Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership and general military training to help prepare prospective Naval officers for service in either the Navy or Marine Corps. Topics cover general Navy/Marine Corps mission and policies, force protection, operational security, watch standing, physical fitness, nutrition, stress management, and other professional development subjects. Consists of a general leadership lab and a specific Navy or Marine Corps lab. *Navy Laboratory. Focuses on the requisite moral, leadership and physical qualifies for becoming a commissioned officer. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .