#http://www.memphis.edu/ehs/programs/training.php
Training - EH&amp;S - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of Environmental Health and Safety Programs Resources Emergencies SDS Contact Us Programs Biological Safety Chemical Safety Chematix Log-in Radiation Safety Hazardous Waste Fire Safety Occupational Health Training Home EH&amp;S Programs Training Training Biological Safety Bloodborne Pathogens This course is intended to provide information and training for all employees whose routine job responsibilities place them at risk of exposure to blood or the potentially infectious materials. This training should be completed annually. Please contact Eric Swauncy (901.678.1625) for blood borne pathogen training. Chemical Safety Hazard Communication Right-to-Know Training This training course applies to all employees who may be exposed to hazardous chemical under normal conditions of use or in a foreseeable emergency. Topics covered include the following: Hazard identification Chemical hazard labeling Material Safety Data Sheets Employee Protection Methods Hazardous Waste Awareness Training This training course is designed to familiarize employees who generate hazardous waste with the regulations and requirements for proper storage and disposal of that waste. Topics covered include: Hazardous waste identification and classification Hazardous waste container management Satellite accumulation point requirements Spill response procedures. Hazardous Material Transportation Training This training course is designed to offer those employees at the University of Memphis who offer for shipment, receive, or are otherwise involved with the transportation of hazardous materials an understanding of the regulations governing such activities. Topics covered include: Identification and recognition of a hazardous material Emergency response Employee protection methods Accident prevention methods The Hazardous Materials Table The CERCLA Reportable Quantities Table (available in the hazardous materials table) Hazardous material containers Hazardous waste manifests. Please contact Erik Tyge (901.678.2044) for chemical safety training. Fire SAFETY Fire Extinguisher Training This class is intended for all University personnel who may need to use a portable fire extinguisher. The class, consisting of a 30 minute presentation followed by hands-on experience with a fire extinguisher, also includes information on fire prevention. Please contact Tom Eadie (901.678.4671) to discuss fire safety training. Laboratory Safety Laboratory Health &amp; Safety Seminar Normally presented at the beginning of the fall semester This course is intended to provide information to employees on how to reduce exposure to chemicals and how to safely work in a laboratory setting. Topics covered include: Employee exposure reduction methods Personal protective equipment The Chemical Hygiene Plan Hazard identification Material Safety Data Sheets Medical consultation and record keeping. Laboratory Ventilation Briefing This 30 to 40 minute briefing provides information on how laboratory ventilation systems function and how to perform work safely in a fume hood. Please contact Alton Simpson (901.678.4672) for laboratory ventilation briefing. Radiation Safety Radiation Worker Course This training is normally required for anyone who uses radioactive materials or radiation producing devices. Topics covered include: Reporting requirements Personnel dosimetry Radioactive waste management Exposure control Radiation Safety Orientation for Non-Users This training course is intended for those personnel who do not use radioactive materials or radiation producing devices but are associated with a laboratory that does use ionizing radiation. Please contact Alton Simpson (901.678.4672) for Radiation Safety Training. On-line Training A Day in the Lab (A PI's Perspective) - Video courtesy of University of California, San Diego. Biological Safety Cabinets - Multiple videos courtesy of Nuaire, Inc. Bloodborne Pathogens - Available from EH&amp;S through Desire-to-Learn. Contact Eric Swauncy (901.678.1625) to enroll. Dow Lab Safety Academy - This site provides multiple lab safety videos, courtesy of Dow Chemical Company Experimenting with Danger - Video courtesy of U.S. Chemical Safety Board, details hazards associated with academic research labs. Fume Hood Tutorial - Learn to use your fume hood properly and understand how the lab ventilation system functions. Laboratory Glassware Safety - Video courtesy of Corning Glass Lab Safety Training - Training courtesy of Lab Safety Workspace, includes several course selections. Mercury Vapor Hazards - The magnitude of mercury vapor emissions from small spills can be easily observed in this video from Bowling Green State University. Occupational Safety and Health Training - Use these on-demand training resources for topics ranging from chemical safety to excavation - courtesy of Human Resources. Pandemic Preparedness - "Workplace Strategies for Pandemic Preparedness" provides background information, strategies for reducing virus transmission, and other practical information. Respirator Safety - Free videos from OSHA that discuss respiratory protection and demonstrate how to don, doff, and perform user seal checks on respirators. Safety Training from Oklahoma State University - OSU offers a broad range of basic training on-line at no charge. Surgical Masks v. Respirators - Free video from OSHA describing the protective differences between surgical masks and respirators. Hazardous Materials Training from North Carolina State University - NCSU offers a variety of on-line courses. Hazardous Waste Management - Available from EH&amp;S through Desire-to-Learn. Contact Jennifer Tichenor (901.678.5700) to enroll. Hazardous Waste and Underground Storage Tanks - Courtesy of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Fire Extinguisher - For hands-on training, please contact Employee Safety and Health . Working with Pyrophoric Reagents - Courtesy of University of California, San Diego Self-paced CD-ROM Training Biological Safety Cabinets Hazard Communication Laboratory Safety Laser Safety Orientation Safe Use of Chemicals Please contact EH&amp;S (901.678.5700) to schedule an appointment. Video Library Please contact EH&amp;S (901.678.5700) to check out videos. Programs Biological Safety Chemical Safety Chematix Log-in Radiation Safety Hazardous Waste Fire Safety Occupational Health Training Be Prepared Sign up for safety training. Report an Incident Report an Accident, Near Miss, or Safety Hazard. Know the Plan The Crisis Management Plan has everything you need to know. Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .