#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/teaching/ugletter.php
Letter for High and Junior High School Students - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Degree Programs in Egyptology Prospective Students Graduate Undergraduate Current M.A. Students Alumni Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Teaching Letter for High and Junior High School Students Thinking about a Career in Egyptology? Thank you for your interest in the Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology at the University of Memphis. This letter is intended to answer questions from high school and junior high / middle school students about preparations for a potential career in Egyptology. Young persons often ask what preparation is necessary for a career in Egyptology, and what are the job prospects. Egyptology is an extremely competitive field requiring many years of specialized graduate study resulting in a doctoral level degree (Ph.D.). Before proceeding on to graduate study in Egyptology, you will first need to complete an undergraduate degree in a related field such as Art History, Anthropology, Archaeology, History, Near / Middle Eastern Studies or Classical Studies. Undergraduate students at The University of Memphis may choose to major in Art History or History, and take courses in Egyptian art, language and culture offered at the undergraduate level. A Bachelor of Art degree in Art History or History from the University of Memphis, with some coursework in Egyptian art, history and language, would provide you with an excellent start to your career as an Egyptologist. Since Egyptological research requires use of books and articles written in French and German, it is a very good idea to begin study of one or both languages before entering college. Egyptology degree programs are very competitive, with many students applying each year for only a few openings. High scholastic achievement (good grades) in college is necessary to compete successfully with other applicants. Learning and practicing good study habits in high school will prepare you to succeed in college. In addition, students with good grades are more likely to get fellowships and scholarships which will ease the financial burden of attending college. Upon completion of an undergraduate degree in one of the major fields mentioned above, qualified students can enter a Master's degree program such as the one offered at the University of Memphis (one of a very few such Egyptology programs in North America). Exceptional students with the proper undergraduate preparation may also apply directly to a Ph.D. program at one of the centers of Egyptological research. Universities with well-regarded Ph.D. programs in Egyptology include (among others) Brown, Yale, University of Pennsylvania, The Johns Hopkins University, University of Chicago, University of California/Berkeley, University of California/Los Angeles, the University of Michigan, New York University, Emory University in Atlanta, and the University of Toronto in Canada. The University of Memphis offers a Ph.D. in Ancient History with a specialization in Egyptian history. Egyptology programs abound in the United Kingdom and Europe. There is also a program at The American University in Cairo (where instruction is in English). Most universities with a graduate program in Egyptology also offer courses at the undergraduate level, and will allow interested undergraduates to take graduate courses with permission; a few have undergraduate degree programs. Each university program tends to have its own sub-specialties, depending on the background and interests of the faculty. For example, the University of Memphis has one of very few programs which centers primarily on the art of Egypt, as do the programs at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts and Emory University. Students also frequently ask about the need or desirability of archaeological field experience for a career in Egyptology. No archaeological experience is required for acceptance to any Egyptology program of study. However, if you would like to eventually work on an archaeological project in Egypt, your best action is to enroll in an archaeological field school run by a reputable U.S. college or university. The field school experience trains you in the methods and theory of excavation. Some field schools around the U.S. and the world are listed in a print publication entitled the Archaeological Fieldwork Opportunities Bulletin, available through the Archaeological Institute of America (AIA). The AIA also makes available an on-line database of Fieldwork opportunities. A few of these programs will take high school students. Excavation work in Egypt is generally limited to students at the graduate level who have acquired a strong Egyptological background. For answers to questions about a career in archaeology, you might visit: Another web site of interest is from the Society of American Archaeology at . The Egyptology job market is extremely competitive, with many well-qualified candidates competing for a few, fairly low-paying jobs. The two main career tracks are that of university professor and museum curator (usually in a museum with a fairly large Egyptian collection). The preparation for both career paths is similar, although the aspiring curator will want to have coursework and one or more degrees in Art History or Anthropology. Coursework in Museum Studies is also beneficial. While it is possible for a trained Egyptologist to work in the ancient art or auction market, these jobs are extremely few in number, and you should be aware that professionally trained archaeologists are prohibited by their code of ethics from participating in the trade in ancient Egyptian art. No Egyptologist chooses the study of ancient Egyptian culture as a career expecting material rewards; professional degrees such as law, business, or medicine are better routes for anyone looking for a more secure financial future. For more information on careers in Egyptology and a list of Egyptology programs abroad, you can also go to . For information about applying to the University of Memphis as an undergraduate student, please see the web pages at You may also visit the Department of Art web site at for additional information, and instructions on how to apply. Whatever decision you make about your future, we wish you every success in your chosen career. Degree Programs in Egyptology Prospective Students Graduate Undergraduate Current M.A. Students Alumni Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .