#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3510004.pdf
The University of Memphis Business Communication, MGMT 3510 Fall 2015 FCBE Room 267 M.W. 2:20pm. - 3:45pm . CRN: 80780 SECTION 004 : Gilda G. Lewis gglewis@memphis.edu Contact: By ema il or appointment Coordinator, B usiness Communication: Dr. Barbara D. Davis, Room 328 Fogelman, 678 - 3932, bddavis@memphis.edu Course Management information : : Ecourseware . Pleas e check Ecourseware weekly for updates on assignments, interesting points about Business Communication and grades. Text book Information : . BCOM 7 . Lehman, C. M., and DuFrene, D. D. (20 1 4 ). Mason, OH: South - Western Cengage Learning. CM978 1 305403185 - 0000034 New textbook is required in order to facilitate the entire learning experience of this course. ISBN 13 - 978 - 1 - 305 - 40193 - 8 To access CourseMate and enroll in this course, please go to: - SXF0LJ . Once there, click the "Downloads" tab, should then click the "Student Registration and Enrollment Clickpath" tab, and, f inally, should click the "Download File" link. Again the course number is CM - 9781305403185 - 0000034 Course Description : Communication theory applied to business and the professions; emphasis on effective writing; presentation of written and oral case sol utions, letters, memoranda, reports, and employment applications; selection and use of research sources; consideration of business ethics, technology, and intercultural communication. PREREQUISITE: MIS 2749, or equivalent. [W] NOTE: THIS IS A WRITING IN TENSIVE COURSE ! Course Goals and Objectives : To develop an understanding of the theory (principles) of effective communication and the ability to apply these principles to the solving of management problems, especially in the form of written business me ssages. Although the emphasis i s not on grammar, spelling, etc., all work is expected to be correct in these areas. Objectives . Upon completion of this course, the student is expected to be able to: 1. Understand and d iscuss the communication proces s ; 2. Plan, organize, and write a variety of business messag es that display appropriate tones and d emonstrate the use of correct appearance in business documents; 3 . Discuss and use listening, oral , and nonverbal communication skills; 4 . Prepare and deliver an effective oral presentation using Microsoft PowerPoint ; 5 . Gather, organize, and evaluate data to write business reports; 6 . P repare employment communication messages , including a letter of application and resume; 7. Understand and discuss effective team, interpersonal, and intercultural communication 8 . Use critical thinking , ap ply ethical approaches to solving business communication problems , and exhibit desirable work traits (business etiquette) , which promote success in business. BBA Degree Program Learning Outcomes The learning outcomes for this degree program are located on the following URL. Not e: Goals indicate Learning Outcomes for the degree program. The objectives under each learning outcome indicates what must be done to reach the learning outcome. Faculty members in the Fogelman College developed these learning outcomes and periodically assess students to determine the level that the learning outcomes are being met. Academic Course Requirements : Student You are responsible for all work covered in class regardless of your attendance record. You are responsible for any and all Responsibility reading and writing assignments. You are responsible for presenting assignments on time. You are responsible for all material covered in the text. All written assignments are to be typed ( double - spaced ) and handed in on the date assigned. This syllabus is not to be considered as a contract. It is merely a guide to assist students in planning and preparing for class. With reasonable notice the syllabus is subject to change . ADA Any student who anticipates physical or academic barriers based on the impact of a disability is encouraged to speak with me privately. Students with disabilities should also contact Disability Resources for Stude nts (DRS) at 110 Wilder Tower, 901 - 678 - 2880. DRS coordinates access and accommodations for students with disabilities. Grading : Exam 1 100 points Exam 2 100 points Class participation Attendance 100 points Textbook Exercises 100 points Written Assignments 3 00 points Presentation 200 points Final Exam 1 00 points Total 1000 points Grade for Course: Based on the percentage of total course points attained by the student. A 9 0 - 100 % B 80 - 8 9% C 70 - 79 % D 6 0 - 69 % F Below 60 % Student assignments: Written assignments ar e an important component of this class. Examinations : Two examinations and a final are given in this course. Exams are designed to check knowledge of specific concepts as well as comprehensive understanding of principles and interrelationships. Essay questions and all written reports will be graded on the basis of how logically supportive the re sponse is to the matter described. Make - up /Missed Test Exams will be taken on E - Courseware. If for any reason, you have a problem w ith an e - courseware exam, you must notify the instructor ASAP. If you mi ss the deadline for an exam, the instructor will determine if you are allowed to make up the exam with a letter grade reduction. Attendance: T his course demands regular attendance and participation. You will be held accountable for attendance and po ints will be deducted from your gr ade for unexcused absences, Class Attendance: 100 points toward the final grade will be determined by attendance/class participation Written Assignments worth 3 00 points of grade a. Informational/routine message b. Unpleasant/bad news message c. Persuasive message (letter of application can substitute for this message ) d. Employment communication (letter of application and resume minimum requirements) e. Student individual o ral presentations (formal and informal) f. Research activity which demonstrates use of gathering, organizing, evaluating, and synthesizing information into report format u s ing graphics as well as APA style documentation (Team Project) g. Business etiquette and t eam communication activity (Networking Component ) Administrative Course Requirements: P rerequisites : Students must have earned a minimum of 45 credit hours and have met specific 00 and 4000 level courses. In addition to these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower division business courses with a of 2.25 GPA (2.5 for accounting majors) in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1830 or 1910, and (3) 45 hours of course work including MATH 1830 or 1910, COMM 2381 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements - General Requirement s). Non - Business majors must have junior or senior standing and have met specific prerequisites of courses. Students are responsible for ensuring that requirements are met; otherwise, administrative drop actions may be implemented. A cademic I ntegrity : . Cheating and plagiarism are unacceptable in an academic environment and will not be tolerated. University regulation provides for the assignment of a failing grade for anyone found guilty of such misconduct. Please familiarize yourself with the academic policy used at the University of Memphis. S tudent C onduct : This is a profe ssional educational environment. Students may not eat in class. Professional decorum is expected during class and during discussions. Respect for all students and staff is required in this class. Grades will be affected by unprofessional conduct. ) P osting of G rades : E - Courseware will be used to compile grades. Assignments are expected to be placed in the appropriate dro pbox on the date assigned. There will be assignments that are intended to assist you learning the materials for this class . Please be aware of the weekly assignments that are required in the companion website . Academic Calendar First Day of Classes A ug 24, 2015 / Mon Labor Day Sep 7, 2015 / Mon Fall Break Oct 10 - 13, 2015 / Sat - Tue Thanksgiving Holidays Nov 25 - 29, 2015 / Wed - Sun Last Day of Classes Dec 2, 2015 / Wed Study Day Dec 3, 2015 / Thur Exams Dec 4 - 10, 2015 / Fri - Thur Class Schedule We ek Chapter Assignment s Week 1 Introduction to C ourse Chapter 1 Establishing a Framework for Business Weekly assignment in CourseS mart (every week) Short essay Communication what are my expectatio ns for Week 2 Labor Day Holiday Chapter 2 Focusing on Interpersonal and Group Communication Networking assignment Teams Assigned Week 3 Chapter 3 Planning Spoken and Written Messages Research topic chosen Topic approved by Instructor Week 4 Chapter 4 Preparing Written Messages Begin work on Resume Week 5 Exam 1 Ecourseware Chapter 5 Communicating Electronically Monday Week 6 Chapter 6 Delivering Good and Neutral Messages Business Memo (Informational) Week 7 Fall Break Oct 10 - 13, 201 5 / Sat - Tue Networking assignment Week 8 Chapter 7 Delivering Bad News \ Chapter 9 Understanding the Report Process and Research Methods: Message Memo: layoffs/ plant closing/ missed revenue margins/ health care premium increasing/ other negative news Week 9 Chapter 8 Delivering Persuasive message Exam 2 Cover letter for job, Look up job ad and reproduce ad and cover letter for ad. (Dropbox) Week 10 Chapter 13 Preparing Resumes and Application Messages Resume completed submitted in Ecourseware drop bo x Week 11 Chapter 10 Managing Data and Using Graphics First draft of research paper due Week 12 Chapter 11 Organizing and Preparing Reports Team Exercise Week 13 Chapter 12 Designing and Delivering Business Presentations Presentation of Reports. Week 14 Presentation of Report s Week 15 Chapter 14 Interviewing for a Job and Preparing Employment Messages Week 16 Impromptu presentations Resources, Education and Writing Assistance (FREE) : APA format websites : or Alphanumeric Outline Example: Career Corner: s.edu/fcbe/career/index.php Career Services: Educational Support Program (ESP) - provides academic counseling, contact information is Professional Development Center Programs: The Business Learnin g Center : ( R oom 256 , FCBE ) - provides tutoring in accounting, statistics, finance, management, and marketing. Writing assistance is also available in Patterson, Room 225 only. Contact number is 901.678.3912. Tutoring: General tutoring ( ) Writing and online tutoring ( ) University of Memphis plagiarism policy and helpful tutorial s : UM Policy on Plagiarism , How To Avoid Plagiarism. Study efficiencies/time management - Mitchell Hall, Room 2 07