#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mis/2015FMIS8710001.pdf
Course Syllabus MIS 8710 -001 - Seminar in Information System I Fall 2015 3.0 Credit Hours Dr. William J. Kettinger Professor and FedEx Chair of Excellence in Management Information Systems Department of Business Information and Technology Office: FAB 346 Class Location and Hours: FCB 383 - Tuesday (1:30 PM Ð 4:3 0 PM) Office hours: Monday (2:00p m Ð 5:0 0pm or by appointment) Office Phone: (901) 678 -4547 Email: bill.kettinger@memphis.edu Course Overview This is the first of two IS research seminars that together form the literature and methodological base from which you will develop your MIS research acumen. The field of MIS draws from a number of diverse theoretical lenses, many of which are adapted from reference disciplines. It is impor tant for doctoral students to construct their own mental schema of the field so that new knowledge can be effectively synthesized. This seminar offers a start to that journey through exposure to classic and contemporary IS research as well as key theoreti cal underpinnings of the discipline. Your two IS seminars, combined with your required MIS functional courses, required research methodology classes, and your directed readings will also be the basis for questions on your written and oral comprehensive e xaminations. Required Texts (and Related Materials): The course will use journal articles and readings that are either available through the University of Memphis Library or will be provided by the Professor. A schedule of weekly readings will be provided to you in class. Course Objectives: The primary objective of this first seminar is to provide you with a foundation for your research career and introduce many of the seminal works in MIS. Through this course you will familiarize yourself with t he basic tenets of MIS research, receive an introduction to various research philosophies and approaches employed, and cover important foundational MIS articles. 2 At the completion of this seminar, students shoul d: - Understand what MIS research means ; - Comprehend the foundational systems elements of the IS field; - Comprehend the fieldÕs evolution and its relationship to information technologies; - Comprehend and apply the basic tenets of theory and methods : - Possess knowledge of key re search streams in the MIS field: - Developed skills to critically read and evaluate MIS literature : - Have the ability to compare and contrast tradeoffs in conducting research : - Have the ability to provide basic structure and organization to a research project; - Have the ability to present and defend opinions by making judgments about validity of research and quality of research products ; - Begin to structure a mental schema of the IS field; and - Start acquiring the ability to critically assess the IS field and take a position on moving it forward. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the PhD degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the over all learning objectives as a student in the PhD program. See: .pdf Course Methodology : This is a doctoral seminar. While I do not expect you to fully assimilate everything you read on the first pass , I do expect significant effort and thought on your part . For my part, I will present ideas, concepts, experiences, and guidelines throughout the course. It is your responsibility to create your own understanding and notes. This can b e done as a part of the class, but more importantly should be assimilated thoroug hly after class . This might involve re -reading assigned articles, reading additional self -solicited material and discussions with your colleagues. The culmination of these efforts will result in a set of notes that reflect your understanding of an area. These notes can be enhanced as the learning process continues through out your program and can be an invaluable part of your research schema. Do not hesitate to ask question s in class or after class if something is unclear. It is my job to provide you with research guidance and your responsibility to put your best effort forward to imbibe it. As a seminar, your participation is absolutely essential. You will be expected to perform a major role in contributing to class discussions. This requires thorough preparation for every class. It is assumed that you have carefully read the assigned readings and are fundamentally familiar with what each has to say. The real test is in the thought process you have put into the readings, rather than merely muddling through them. Consider follow ing the cycles of read Ð think Ð class ify Ð think Ð re-read Ð think -- document ! . The class discussions will be directed by student discus sion l eaders that I will assign in the previous week. While everyone must carefully read the assigned readings, the discussion leaders should: - PRIOR to class organize the discussion of their article(s) 3 - Prepare a 2-3 page handout for distribution to the class that summarizes the major points of the article(s) (see below format suggestions ) - Ensure that the class interaction is continuous and brings out the major points (takeaways) of the article(s). Be creative in stimulating class discussion. This involv es preparing leading questions and discussion points and acting as master of ceremonies of a fairly informal discussion of the paper. The discussion leader should work to ensure that all attendees at the seminar get involved in the discussion (whether they want to be involved or not). - All article write -ups should be your original work! The class discussion should have at least four components: 1. Summary or overview of the article. 2. Assessment of articleÕs contribution to the IS literature (and to practice), i.e., where it fits into your schema. Be sure to consider both the logic and clarity of the papers. 3. Discussion of articleÕs strengths and weaknesses, with particular emp hasis on philosophy/ theory/ methodology. 4. Assessment of future work that can build on the study. Typically, a discussion session o n a paper will be around 20 -30 minutes. Also, as the first research seminar, the primary focus is on learning Ð how does the article enh ance our understanding? As you gain research prowess through the program, there will be an increasing emphasis on critiquing ar ticles in your respective interest areas . Article write -ups should contain at least two major sections: (a) A summary of the ke y takeaway points as discerned by the reader, and (b) An interpretation of the article. This could include responses to questions like: ¥ How did this article influence thinking in the IS field at that time? ¥ What is its contributi on with respect to contempo rary IS environments? ¥ How does it relate to other articles and practices? ¥ Does it espouse a theoretical perspective that is useful to study IS phenomena and why? ¥ How has it influenced your thinking of the field? ¥ Are there aspects of the article that are unclear, make too many assumptions or could be subject to other criticism? In addition to the questions above, for empirical articles you should consider each of the following dimensions. - Abstract: Does the abstract highlight the significant points of the article? - Introduction : Is the ÒSo WhatÓ compelling? Is the background covered thoroughly and succinctly? - Theory : Does the background include a strong theory? Do es the t heory form a strong basis for a casual model? Is the theoretical conceptual model clear? - Independent Variables: Do the independent variables have conceptual and operational definitions that are reasonable? 4 - Dependent Variables: Do the dependent variables have conceptual and operat ional definitions that are reasonable? - Hypotheses : Are the hypotheses meaningful and clearly stated? Are they reasonably deduced from the background? - Methodology : How well does the methodology test key hypotheses? - Analysis : Were the appropr iate statist ical tests applied? What alternative/c omplementary statistical techniques may be used? - Results : Do the results follow reasonably from the analysis? - Implications for Future Research : How can this research be replicated? What questions does it raise for future research that needs to be answered? How can such research be conducted? - Implications for Practice: Does the research help MIS practitioners? How , in your opinion , will this research improve future MIS practice ? NOT E: IT IS CRITICAL THAT EVERY STUDENT READ ALL PAPERS ASSIGNED AND CONTRIBUTE THEIR PERSPECTIVE DURING OR AFTER THE DISCUSSION LEADERÕS PRESENTATION. In this regard, I will often call upon unassigned students to lead impromptu discussion or respond to ques tion pertaining to the topic under discussion. Finally, I expect classes to be productive and challenging. Such an environment requires that we maintain professional behavior. I expect honesty, maturity, courtesy, and sensitivity. I want you to enjoy attending class and to feel relaxed Ð but there is no room for unprofessional behavior. We will hopefully learn from one another and push each other to a higher level of understanding and appreciation. Course Evaluation: Final grades will be based an average score of course requirements. Please discuss any concerns you may have about the grading policy as early as possible in the semester. The follow ing grading scale will be used. Points percentage Letter grade 90 - 96.9; 97 Ð 100 A, A+ 80 - 86.9; 87 - 89.9 B, B+ 70 - 76.9; 77 - 79.9 C, C+ 60 - 66.9; 67 - 69.9 D, D+ /(82416& $10&8()#2&?'$0#94'&?%%4%($1'# &¥ ?034%416&.#234'#%&782&*86#"9$1&.(/0#1(% &¥ >#')14'$"&?%%4%($1'# & 8 Appendix: Research Methodologies More Commonly Used in MIS Case Studies A case study is a particular method of qualitative research. Rather than using large samples and following a rigid protocol to examine a limited number of variables, case study methods involve an in -depth, longitudinal examination of a single instance or event: a case. Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989). Building theories from case study research. Academy of Management Review , 14(4), 532 -550. Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989). Making fast strategic decisions in high -velocity environments. Academy of Management Journal , 32(3), 543 -576. Survey/Interviewing This is a research methodology that relies on gathering research data via interviews and surveys instruments. Laboratory Experiment Empirical and quantitative research done in a controlled environment. Field Experiments Research done in a less controlled natural environment, must be quantitative and include research principles such as random selection. Gersick, C. J. G. (1988). Time and transition in work teams: Toward a new model of group development. Academy of Management Journal, 31(1), 9 -41. Field Studies Research done not in a laboratory but in t he natural environment; it may be observational only, it may include experimental interaction with the subjects in the field. Action Research In action research, the researcher wants to try out a theory with practitioners in real situations, gain feedback from this experience, modify the theory as a result of this feedback and try it again. Action research consists of iteration. Each iteration of the action research process adds to the theory so it is more likely to be appropriate for a variety of situations. 9 Ethnographic research Ethnography refers to the genre of writing or research that presents qualitative description of human social pheno mena, based on fieldwork. Ethnography presents the results of a holistic research method founded on the idea that a system's properties cannot necessarily be accurately understood independently of each other. The genre has both formal and historical connec tions to travel writing and colonial office reports. Several academic traditions, in particular the constructivist and relativist paradigms, claim ethnographic research as a valid research method. It can also include case suites, interviews, long -term stud ies of sites. Gopal, A., & Prasad, P. (2000). Understanding GDSS in symbolic context: Shifting the focus from technology to interaction. MIS Quarterly, 24(3), 509 -546. Design Science Creates and evaluates IT artifacts intended to solve identified organiza tional problems. Design science is inherently a problem solving process. DS seeks to create innovations that define the idea, practices, technical capabilities, and products through which the analysis, design, implementation, management, and use of IS can be effectively and efficiently accomplished. DS can use a combination of other research methodologies to achieve the research aim. Mathematical Models Abstract model using mathematics to describe system behavior; include independent variables, constants; may be derivable through proof; has a quantitative outcome that is verifiable via a proof or via experiments. May use Economics theory and Econometric modeling. Simulation Enhances purely mathematical models when elementary functions alone cannot describ e the solution. Generates samples of data from running multiple simulation, usually includes variables too numerous to put into one mathematical model or that cannot be derived via a mathematical proof and is generally not experimentally verifiable in the full -scale natural environment. Pluralistic Methodology Using multiple research methodologies.