#http://www.memphis.edu/commencement/apply/
Prerequisite to Apply to Graduate - Commencement Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Apply to Graduate Prerequisite to Apply to Graduate Deadlines Name Changes Cap and Gown Order Diploma Mailing Address FAQs Home Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Prerequisite to Apply to Graduate Congratulations! You are now close enough to completing your degree requirements to be included in an upcoming commencement ceremony. Please be aware that participation in the commencement ceremony does not mean that you have been certified or necessarily will be certified for graduation at the University of Memphis this semester. Certification, that is, actual degree conferral, will depend upon your successful fulfillment of all of the requirements for receiving a degree in your field as described in the Undergraduate Catalog of the University of Memphis.Congratulations on your upcoming graduation from the UofM. Read this information in its entirety. Reading "Prerequisite to Apply to Graduate" is your First Step in the Four-Steps to Graduation process. All students must file for graduation by their deadline. By reading this required information, you understand that your participation in the commencement ceremony does not mean that students have graduated; degree conferral depends upon successful completion of all of the degree requirements described in the Undergraduate Catalog and Graduate School and Department Requirements. SPECIAL NOTICE to All MAY Graduating Students is listed in Important Information below. Please read. Apply to graduate process After you completely read this entire webpage, return to your myMemphis portal. Click on the My Degree tab and then locate the Commencement channel to access Step 2, Apply to Graduate. Completion of Step 2 and Step 3, Diploma Mailing/Cap and Gown Form, is required of all students who are applying to graduate whether or not you plan to attend the Commencement ceremony. Again, actual ceremony attendance and/or non-attendance information will be collected mid-term of your graduating semester. Proceed to STEP 2 – Apply to Graduate REQUIRED – and you are required to select a term, choose the most recent term or the term in which you were last enrolled in your degree-seeking program (degree, majors, concentrations, and/or minors). Once your application to graduate has been submitted, any changes must be routed through your Graduation Analyst. You can view your submitted application by selecting "View Application to Graduate". STEP 3 . Diploma Name, Address and Cap and Gown Form . REQUIRED step by all graduating students whether attending or not. There are NO additional fees. If you are unsure of your cap size, stop by 101 Brister Hall, M-F 8a-430p, for proper measurement. STEP 4- Attendance/Non-Attendance Form . REQUIRED This step will be sent to your Memphis email in your FINAL semester. You must complete an application to graduate for each degree. For example, select the College of Arts and Sciences' Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Psychology. Submit the application. Return to Apply to Graduate to select your second degree, complete the application, and submit. If you plan to graduate with more than one degree and the degrees will be completed in different terms, you must complete the Diploma Mailing/Cap and Gown Information form for each of the terms (for example, Fall 2013 for Bachelor of Arts and Spring 2014 for Bachelor of Science). ATTENTION : Students must be approved for graduation prior to being able to participate or remain on the graduation list. If you are lacking any coursework, this will affect your approval status and delay your graduation until that coursework is met. Requirements to Apply to Graduate For undergraduates - 80 earned hours, 1.95 GPA For graduates - 3.00 GPA For law - 55 hours, 1.90 GPA Undergraduate Students : If you have attended another college or university, having transfer credit in UMdegree is essential for the graduation checkout to be accurate. Please notify your advisor if you have missing transfer credits. For further questions about academic coursework, please contact your Graduation Analyst. Graduate Students : All degree seeking student filing for graduation are required to submit candidacy forms (masters/doctoral/certificate program/EDS Program of Study and Candidacy Form) for processing by the Graduate School. Signatures are required from the departmental advisor, graduate studies coordinator, and College Director of Graduate Studies. Candidacy forms received by the College Director of Graduate Studies after the semester deadline will not be approved; therefore, we strongly recommend that you submit the form to your departmental advisor at least one to two weeks prior to the college directors' deadline. Proceed to the Graduate School website and click on " Graduation Information " to obtain the required form(s), deadlines and additional information pertaining to graduation. If you have previously filed for graduation and did not meet all degree requirements, it will not be necessary to submit a new candidacy form unless you have made significant changes to your degree program. For further information about your academic coursework, please contact the Graduate School. Law Students : Students must return the Law School Graduation Checklist to the Law Registrar prior to completing the Application to Graduate. For further information about your academic coursework, contact the Law School Registrar. Important News from the Commencement Office Undergraduate Diplomas only reflect the degree and any honors distinctions and departmental honors. Majors and Concentrations are available on your transcripts ONLY. Some Graduate Diplomas, including Doctoral degrees, list the degree only on the diploma. Majors and Concentrations are available on your transcripts. All students in the program are walking based on their prior semester GPA. Any changes in honors will be reflected on the Undergraduate Diploma at the time of certification. Graduate School Diplomas do NOT denote any honors. Spring graduation may conflict with the Grizzlies playoff schedule, so there could be a possible date change. If you are graduating in the spring semester, read about it here. Second majors and second concentrations do not participate in the Commencement ceremony. They do not walk. They are not listed in the program and they do not receive a second diploma. For example, in May 2011, student received a Bachelor of Professional Studies with a concentration Health Services degree, and returned in May 2012 and added a concentration within Professional Studies. In May 2012, student received a Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in English, and returns in December 2012 and gets a second major in History. These are the same degree, so no second diploma, program name or participation. Graduate Certificate ONLY students do not participate in the Commencement ceremony. Names are listed in the spring Commencement program only. Step 4 - Completion of the Attendance/Non-Attendance Form is required for both students participating in the Commencement ceremony (walking) and for students not planning to participate (non-walking). This includes all levels of students: doctoral, masters, law and undergraduates. Attendance is collected by semester so only the current semester graduating student fills out the form. Ceremony attendance information will be collected by the Commencement Office during the middle of your graduating semester. See below for when you need to fill out your card. If you are applying to graduate in spring (May) -The May Commencement always has the possibility of changing dates due to the Grizzlies playoff schedule. Please plan and have guests plan accordingly (Saturday or Sunday event possibility). If you are graduating in the May (spring) Commencement ceremonies, we highly recommend and encourage you to speak to your guests to plan for Commencement weekend, pending further information regarding the Grizzlies NBA Playoff Schedule. We recommend booking any return flights (transportation) either late on Sunday (depending on the graduating students college or school) or Monday morning following Commencement. Please share the spring possible back-up-date information with all guests (immediate and extended family and friends). We appreciate your help in helping us spread the word. Confirmation of actual dates and times will be sent out via the graduating students Memphis email account, on our website and@UoMCommencement (Twitter). Graduation Term Complete the Attendance/Non-Attendance Card August graduates will be asked to submit attendance in June/July. December graduates will be asked to submit attendance in October. May graduates will be asked to submit attendance in February. Call 901.678.5547 with questions. By reading this required information, you understand that your participation in the commencement ceremony does not mean that students have graduated; degree conferral depends upon successful completion of all of the degree requirements described in the Undergraduate Catalog and Graduate School and Department Requirements . ATTENTION : Students must be approved for graduation prior to being able to participate or remain on the graduation list. If you are lacking any coursework, this will affect your approval status and delay your graduation until that coursework is met. Apply to Graduate Prerequisite to Apply to Graduate Deadlines Name Changes Cap and Gown Order Diploma Mailing Address FAQs Contact Us Got questions? Let us know how we may assist you. Commencement Attendance Form Will you be attending Commencement? Inform us! News Keep up with Commencement related information. Commencement Live Can't attend Commencement? Watch it live! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/11/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .