#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/academic_regulations/grading.php
Grading System - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Home Graduate Catalog Academic Regulations Grading System Grading System The table below shows the grades that may be awarded with their quality points: PLUS/MINUS GRADING SCALE GRADE QUALITY POINTS GRADE QUALITY POINTS A+ 4.00 C+ 2.33 A 4.00 C 2.00 A- 3.84 C- 1.67 B+ 3.33 D+ 1.33 B 3.00 D 1.00 B- 2.67 F 0.00 Grades used to postpone or suspend course completion include "I" (incomplete), "IP" (in progress), and "W" (withdrawn). Independent studies or problems courses, directed readings, student teaching, workshops, practica, internships, theses, and dissertations should be graded "A-F, IP" or "S","U", IP." A grade of "S,""U," or "IP," does not carry any quality points and is not included in computing GPA. Incomplete: The grade "I" (Incomplete) may be assigned by the faculty member in any course other than those with “IP” grading in which the student is unable to complete the work due to extraordinary events beyond the individual's control that are acceptable to the faculty member. The "I" may not be used to extend the term for students who complete the course with an unsatisfactory grade. Unless the student completes the requirements for removal of the "I" within 90 days from the end of the semester or summer session in which it was received (see University Calendar), the "I" will change to an "F," whether or not the student is enrolled. The faculty member may grant up to a 45-day extension if sufficient extenuating circumstances exist. At the end of the extension period, the "I" grade will automatically revert to "F" if the student has not completed the requirements. The student will be certified for graduation only when all requirements are met, including the removal of "I" grades. If a student has an "I" in a course necessary to fulfill degree requirements in the semester in which he or she expects to graduate, the certification process and graduation will automatically be deferred to the next term. In Progress: In some courses with "IP" (In Progress) grading, faculty members may assign "IP" to extend the time permitted for the completion of research or course requirements. A student awarded an "IP" grade must re-enroll in the course for the same number of hours to complete the work. Students must continuously re-enroll in thesis or dissertation courses but the hours may vary. The final grade will be submitted by the faculty member at the end of the term in which the work is completed. Thesis/Dissertation Grading: The use of S, U, IP grading for theses and dissertations is different from its use for other courses. The grade of “S” is ONLY awarded when the student successfully defends the thesis or dissertation; the grade of “U” is awarded ONLY when the student fails to defend successfully. Otherwise, the grade of “IP” is awarded to indicate that the student is progressing in a timely manner. Students must enroll for at least 1 thesis or dissertation hour for each semester (except for summer sessions) that they are working on the thesis or dissertation. Grade Point Average: Graduate students must maintain a 3.0 GPA ("B"). Grades of "D" and "F" will not apply toward any graduate degree, but will be computed in the GPA. No more than 7 hours of "C-," "C" or "C+" will be applied towards meeting degree requirements. Grades earned at another university will not be computed in the cumulative GPA. Grades in courses that are older than the time limitation for degree will be shown on the transcript but will not be included in the computation of the GPA used for graduation. Only courses that have been validated will count toward the degree (see below for validation policy). The overall GPA required for graduation, computed on all graduate level courses completed whether or not they are listed on the candidacy form, must also be 3.0. Repetition of Courses: A graduate student may repeat a course to earn a higher grade only if the earned grade was a "U" or lower than a "B" (3.0). No course may be repeated more than once to improve the grade. Only the grade earned in the second attempt will be included in the computation of the cumulative grade point average. A maximum of two courses may be repeated during the student's total graduate career to improve a grade. However, if a student advances to a doctoral program and wishes to repeat a third course at the doctoral level, the student must seek approval from the college director of graduate studies. Students should always check with their advisors before enrolling in a course a second time. Grade Changes: Grades properly issued in a course by the faculty member of record will not be altered except when an error was made in computation or reporting or as a result of a formal grade appeal. A grade other than "I" or "IP" may not be changed as a result of additional work after a grade has been submitted to the Office of the Registrar. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .