#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mktg/2015FMKTG3010001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MKTG 3010 - 001 Principles of Marketing M/W 12:40 2:05 Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8/23 /2015) Instructor: Dr. Tracy Cosenza E - mail: tracy.cosenza@memphis.edu Office: FAB 210 Facebook: Tracy Cosenza LinkedIn: Tracy Cosenza (search) Office Hours: M/W 12:00 - 12: 30 pm , 5:00 - 5:30pm, and by appointment Course Overview In 2007 the American Marketing Association defined Marketing as: Marketing is the activity, set of institut ions, and processes for creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large. This course is designed to enable us to discuss the language, functions, and applications of mark eting in a changing international and increasingly social business environment. Specifically, we will examine how an organization can make marketing decisions to effectively target and position their products to a specific customer group in order to achiev e organizational objectives. Catalog Description : Comprehensive study of structure and functions of marketing system in the firm, economy, and society; analysis of target markets, environments, and managerial aspects of marketing practices; comprehensive overview of key components of product and service marketing including brand positioning, pricing, promoting, distribution and selling. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: You must have a a) junior standing; b/ completed 55 hours of coursework; and c/ approval to take Upper Division business courses (for business students). If you do not meet these prerequisites, you may be administratively dropped from the course. The compl ete statement of prerequisites for this course is contained in the Undergraduate Bulletin or in the online catalog at . Required Texts (and Related Materials): Required Text: Mark eting 1e by Shane Hunt & John Mello (McGraw - Hill Education). (Access code IS NOT required). ISBN 978 - 0 - 07 - 786109 This is the ISBN for the hardcover. You may buy/rent the book in any format you choose. You are responsible for the content in the text whether or not we specifically discuss the material in class. I expect that you will read the assigned material before attending class for the chapter topic(s). Recommended Related Materials: LearnSmart access for this text by McGraw Hill Wall Street Journ al and other business publications on/offline. Location of Course Materials: This course will be managed through the MKTG 3010 ecourseware website at: . You will be required to utilize this website to obtain and submit course mate rials, confer with other students in the class, check your own grades, If you have any problems using the site, please call the 24 hour helpdesk at 678 - 8888 Course Objectives: At the conclusion of this course, you Feel confident in communicating and interacting with marketing professionals by using contemporary marketing vocabulary. . (MC testing/quizzes, MMR) Define the concept of customer - perceived value and determine how marketing activities lead to the creation, communication, d elivery, and exchange of market offerings that hold value for customers. . (MC testing/quizzes) Understand the importance of marketing and market - based resources in shaping corporate and business strategies as well as identify how elements of the organiz - environment influence marketing strategy design, implementation, and performance. . (MC testing/quizzes) Identify unethical marketing activities and their consequences on others and the environment. (MC testing/quizzes, Ethics Challenge) Identify the emotional and cognitive processes that underlie consumer decision - making and show how these processes may differ across purchase and consumption contexts due to social, psychological, and product - related factors. . (MC testing/quizzes, out of class activity/in class discussion) Recognize the various approaches that may be applied in segmenting markets and selecting appropriate target markets as well as how marketers apply elements of the marketing mix in shaping distinctive marketplace positio ns in the minds of customers . . (MC testing/quizzes, Marketing Plan Project) expectations with respect to brand experiences and longer - term brand relati onships. . (MC testing/quizzes, case examples/videos/discussion) Identify and consider various marketing career opportunities as well as recognize the value of marketing thought for their own professional development, irrespective of their chosen discipline/career. . (MC testing/quizzes, Class discussions) Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should t ake the time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program: Course Methodology Due to the size of this section, the delivery method will be primarily lecture. As stated above, our time together will be in lectur e format. In general, it is your responsibility to stay engaged in Use of Digital Technology I expect that you will conduct yourself in a professional manner. Please make sure your smartphones are on silent and put away. I realize many of you take notes, access PPTs, etc. via digital technology. Be aware that I consider it a Interaction with Instructor If you cannot make my office hours, I will be delighted to set up an appointment to meet with you at a mutually convenient time. See me before or after class or e - mail me to make an appointment. Please note that, due to other commitments, I cannot guaran Remember, if you are having a problem with the material or with an assignment, etc. me before Also, befor e e - mailing me your questions, be sure you have reviewed the syllabus and other posted documents and communications. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points toward your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work which is the basis for how your overall (final) letter grades will be computed. Final Course Grade : This course is NOT +/ - and the scale is: Point Range Assigned Grade 900 - 1000* A 800 - 899* B 700 - 799* C 600 - 699* D Below 600* F * I do math. Your final grade must fall within a range to receive that grade. The end of the semester. There are many reasons given for late work. However, all late work will be reduced by one full letter grade per day beginning immediately afte r the deadline. Thus, an assignment due at 5:30 pm on W (required submission day) but submitted between 5:31 W and 5:29 R (after the required submission day) will be redu ced by one letter grade, and so on for each day after. Do not ask for an exception. All project instructions are listed on ecourseware as individual documents at the beginning o f the semester . Due dates are listed on the class schedule loaded on ecourseware. Plan accordingly! Treat this class as you would any professional commitment. if it Summary of Graded Activities : Your final grade will be determined on the following basis (using a denominator of 1000 pts). Each aspect of your grade will be detailed on the following pages: Deliverable Total Points Exam 1 150 Exam 2 150 Exam 3 150 Exam 4 150 Exam 5 Makeup exam , comprehensive ( 150 ) Quizzes 160 MMR (2 @ 25) 50 Group Marketing Plan 150 In - class Contribution 40 Total 1000 Course Topics Unit 1: Marketing in the 21 st Century Unit 2: Understanding your Customer Unit 3: Reaching your Customer Unit 4: Responding to your Customer List of Formal Assessed Activities Exams All exams will be M.C. questions utilizing Scantron (bring a #2 pencil). Given the nature of the course, exams will be cumulative (building blocks) but not necessarily comprehensive. Absolutely no cell phones or other electronic devices will be permitted during exam. On Exam 3 (which includes Pricing Math) you may bring a calculator. You may not use the calculator on your phone. You must enter the class wi thin the first 10 minutes of the class to take the exam. If for some reason the University is officially closed on a scheduled exam day or a day that an assignment is due, the scheduled item will automatically take place at the next class meeting. Quizzes Quizzes will be assigned throughout the semester to cover unit reading assignments. There will be 1 or 2 chapters covered on each quizzes with 8 quizzes total. You are expected to take all 8 quizzes. A zero is assigned for a missing quiz. Quizzes are admi nistered online via ecourseware and are open book. There are no make - ups. Be sure to look at the quiz title prior to taking to understand what it covers. Study the material before opening the quiz. Although there are only 10 questions, you will only have 18 minutes to complete the quiz. If you are not familiar with the material, you will lose too much time searching. Your grades will post to within 24 hours but you will not be able to see what you got right or wrong. Also note all quizzes are randomized, meaning every student quiz will be different. If you have any technical problems call the tech help line at UM at 901 - 678 - 8888. You cannot stop and restart the quiz. Be sure to save your answers as you go along. If you are timed out and you have not sav ed your answers they will be lost and you will get a zero. I will not reopen quizzes. Making Marketing Real [MMR] Marketing is not simply a list of terms or a compilation of theories. As we cover concepts in class, you semester will require you to find a current news article from the business press that represent distinct and different marketing concepts that we have discussed. Your written report will defi ne the highlighted concepts and explain how the concepts were applied to a real business situation. Please copy and paste the article and its corresponding link to your analysis. Your write - up should be a minimum of a page and a maximum of three pages. Th e MMR should be turned in via dropbox on the date specified on the summary schedule. These assignments will be graded for the quality of ideas, grammar, and overall thoroughness. They are to be completed ALONE. Please sections below pertaining to dropbox and late assignments. Group Marketing Plan Project [GMPP] abbreviated Marketing Plan for a rising product. This is a Group project and I will not gr is a semester long project and to be completed correctly, you should be thinking about each section as we cover it in class - they all work t ogether. Some class time will be devoted to group work and instruction. The due date is 4:00pm on Nov. 23 rd to the drop box . No late papers will be accepted and the drop box will be closed at that time . Please see sections below pertaining to drop box . Ask your questions early. I will not answer questions about the project after 16 November. In - class Contribution Class engagement will account for a portion of your overall grade. I will randomly have in - class activities throughout the course of the semes ter. If you are present and our work is of substantial quality, you will receive high marks. These assignments cannot be made - up. While attendance is not mandatory, coming to class will improve this portion of your final grade and also help make this a mea ningful class for you. Schedule of Activities may become necessary during the semester. I will notify you via class announcement or email, but it is ultimately your responsibility to keep up with these changes. Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all official course correspondence (individual or group notification) at this email account. If you do not check your .edu account consistently, bounce it to your preferred account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly checking your email, having a Please DO NOT use the email link in eCourseware to correspond with me. It does not allow me to respond to you on my digital devices, thus, I never check it. Email me directly at the above n oted account. I will make every effort to respond to your emails within two (2) business days. Attendance: Attendance is both expected and considered necessary to adequately complete the course . You are responsible for all material covered in class or as signed, regardless of the reason for absence. Class discussion will be based on the assumption that you have read all assigned material prior to attending the session in which it is discussed. It should go without saying, please be on time . For students receiving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attendance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. Academic Integrity: Cheating, Plagiarism, or Student Misconduct misconduct section of the Code of Student Conduct and Disciplinary Procedures. If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are stron gly encouraged to review the Fogelman page on academic integrity: . [Note: u Office of Student Conduct website ] Drop Box Submissions Assignments (MMRs and GMP) are submitted via eLearn drop box. If you have a problem submitting via dropbox, call the tech people at 678 - 8888. Do not wait until the last minute to submit your assignment. I will not accept a late assignment even if a technical problem causes you to miss the deadline . Your wr itten work submitted via dropbox will be submitted to Turnitin.com or similar electronic detection method for an evaluation of the originality of your work (plagiarism). By submitting your assignment through eLearn, you agree that your assignments will go through this review process. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about: Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance Additional GOOD Stuff Center for Writing and Communication The Center for Writing and Communication (CWC) is a combined writing and speaking center that provides free, one - on - one and group tutorials to students working on writing and presentation assignments. Located on the first floor of McWherter Library, the CWC can assist you at any stage of the writing/presentation process including brainstorming ideas, revising ini tial drafts, and developing editing strategies. Whether you are working preserving the integrity of your work. The CWC is open Monday - Thursday, 9:00 - 5:00, and Friday, 9:00 - noon. Visit the CWC website ( ) for more information and to schedule an appointment. Walk - in appointments are also welcome. Any questions that you might have can be directed to Will Duffy by emailing cwc@memphis.edu THE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT CENTER - The Complete Professional Program has an entire semester of events to help you get the job you want. Deadlines If you successfully complete four of the five required core modules, you will receive Th e Complete Professional Program Certificate, our program lapel pin, and a set of business cards. Employers value this certificate and know Our Professional Development Program includes: Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Business Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Futures in Finance Moving into Management Professionalism First! Technology Careers In Business (New for Fall 2014) Toastmasters Women in Action 4Cs Lecture Series Communication, Creativity, Critical Thinking, and Emotional Control (offered during regular classes) Know Good Do Good Thrive (offered during selected core classes) All FCBE students receive the last two components as part of our regular curriculum within Management, MIS, and Marketing core courses. To receive the Complete Professional Program Certificate, you must register for and complete 4 of the five core training modules below: Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters