#http://www.memphis.edu/cris/membership/
Types of Memberships - CRIS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Campus Recreation Intramural Services About Membership Classes/Programs Aquatics Intramurals/Club Sports Facilities Membership Types of Memberships Household Memberships Membership Appointments Home CRIS Membership Types of Memberships Check out the options below and select one that fits you the best! University of Memphis Students Full-Time Students enrolled in six hours or more fall/spring semesters or or one hour or more in summer, on main campus only, have free access with valid Student ID. Part-Time Students enrolled in less than six hours (no part-time in summer) on main campus only, $3 per use. Student Household: Full-time students must have active Student ID. May include one other adult who lives in same household as student, and/or dependent children under 21 years of age. $60 per semester payable at CRIS (Call 678.3459 for appointment). Summer Pass: Full-Time Student eligible if enrolled full-time in previous spring semester. $45 pay at Bursar's Office. Student Guest: Full-Time or Part-Time Students may each sponsor one guest per visit for $5. Guest must remain with sponsoring student throughout visit. Only one guest per ID. Pay at CRIS. Faculty/Staff Full-Time Permanent UofM Faculty or Staff: Individual and Household Memberships are available. Regular employee with base salary of $27,999 or less pay $10 per month for Individual Membership or $20 per month for Household Membership. Regular Employee with base salary of $28,000 or more pay $13 per month for Individual Membership or $26 per month for Household Membership. Memberships are payroll deducted. ID's made for dependent members by appointment only (bring appropriate documentation). Employee IDs activated by Payroll Dept. File employee verification paperwork in CRIS Membership Office. Temporary/Contracted UofM Faculty or Staff: Temporary/contracted employees must have a letter from the chairman of department stating the beginning and ending dates of contract. IDs are made and payment is due at the time of service. Same rate structure as listed for permanent employees Pay CRIS. UofM Faculty/Staff Guest: Guest must remain with sponsor during visit to Recreation Center. Only one guest per member per visit. $5 per visit. Pay CRIS. UofM Retired Faculty/Staff: Retired Faculty or Staff Free with valid ID. Must fill out membership application. Contact UofM Benefits Office. UofM Retired Faculty/Staff Household Member: Spouse of retired faculty/staff. Verification of address required. Payments can be made for one or two semesters at a time. Please bring appropriate documentation. IDs are made and payment is due at the time of service. $10 per month. Pay CRIS. Degreed Alumni Membership UofM Graduates : Individual and household memberships available. Must present UofM diploma or transcript that is stamped "degree received." Please bring appropriate documentation for household members. IDs are made and payment is due at the time of service. Individual: $30 per month, Household: $60 per month. (3 month minimum purchase.) Pay CRIS. Alumni Association Member (Non-Graduate): Must have membership to UofM Alumni Association. May be paid annually or semi-annually. Please call the Alumni Office at 678-2586 or visit for more details. $5 per visit. Pay CRIS. Community Membership Adult, Non-Graduate: May be paid annually or semi-annually. Please bring appropriate documentation of household members enrolled in membership. IDs are made and payment is due at the time of service. Individual: $720 per year, Family: $1,200 per year. Pay CRIS. Conferees UofM Residence Life, Holiday Inn Fogelman Center University Guests: Contact Scheduling Office, 678.3457. UofM ROTC or CRIS Instructors and Staff Contracted ROTC Employees: Must have a letter from the commander stating the beginning and ending contractual dates. Also bring military ID and other appropriate documentation. IDs are made and payment is due at the time of service unless other arrangements have been made. Same rate structure as listed for permanent employees. Pay CRIS. Guest of Member All Members: Must be with UofM member or sponsor throughout visit. One guest per ID. $5 per use. Pay CRIS. Appointments to Set Up Membership We recommend that all persons interested in a membership make an appointment with the Membership Office by calling 678.3459. Appointments are available Monday through Friday, 8:00 am - 4:30 pm. Drop-in visitors may initiate the membership process by inquiring at the front desk during our recreation hours. Refunds There are no refunds for any of our services. Parking Free parking is available on Echles and Spottswood streets. Parking in the lot requires a permit, which is available from Parking Services . To Cancel A Payroll Deducted Membership: Faculty/Staff members can come to the Fitness Center Monday through Friday, 8:00 am - 4:30 pm, to obtain a quadruplicate cancellation form. These forms must be completed by the member who originally signed up for the membership (not a spouse/ dependent). The form must be filled out in its entirety. If membership is authorized for any portion of the month, full payment must be made for the entire month. Therefore, the effective date of cancellation will generally be the 1st day of the month following the completion of the quadruplicate cancellation form. Individuals who wish to cancel Faculty/Staff Membership but who are continuing their UofM employment can rejoin at any time. Membership Types of Memberships Household Memberships Membership Appointments Updates on New Student Recreation Center Keep up with news on our New Student Recreation Center Apply for a Job Explore job opportunities at the Recreation Center Join an Intramurals/Club Sports Team Participate in competitive play in selected sport events! Sign up for a Fitness Program Interested in staying in shape? Checkout our fitness programs. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .