#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3510007.pdf
Business Commu nicati on, MGMT 3510, 007 , Fall 2015 1:00 2:20 TTH Fogelman Classroom Build in g 267 : Dr. Justin Lawhead jtlawhed@memphis.edu University Center 211 678 - 2094 Twitter@justinlawhead LinkedIn Justin L awhead Communication With The Instructor : Pleas use the email address ab ove for communication with me. I check this frequently during the day and it is the m ost efficient way to reach me . If you have not received a response from me within 24 hours , I pr obably did not ge t your message , so please check the email address and resend. Please note I am not a full time instructor. I work as a campus administrator and receive a lot of e - mail. If you have a question, advanced communication must be utilizied. As a Course Management information: R egister for course support through , see card provided in textbook. You will need this c ourse key to register (along with textbook card) for this class: CM - 9781305403185 - 0000045 Text information: Lehman, C. M., and DuFrene, D. D. (2015). BCOM 7 (Seventh Edition). Mason, OH: South - Western Cengage Learning. ISBN: 13: 978130540193 8. USING COURSEMATE SOFTWARE THAT ONLY COMES WITH A NEW BOOK. IF YOU BUY A USED BOOK, THEN THE COURSE MATE WILL COME WITH SAME PRICE AS A NEW USED BOOK. IN ESSENCE, YOU WOULD BE BUYING TWO BOOKS. BUY ONE NEW BOOK. Prerequisites: Students must have earned a minimum of 45 credit hours and have met specific course these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must minimum of 2.25 GPA (2.5 for accounting majors) in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1830 or 1910, and (3) 45 hours of course work including MATH 1830 or 1910, COMM 2381 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements - General Requirements). Non - Business majors must have junior or senior standing and have met specific prere quisites of courses. Students are responsible for ensuring that requirements are met; otherwise, administrative drop actions may be implemented. Class attendance This is a highly interactive course focused on instructor and participant feedback. Missing c lass is problematic and will affect participation grade. Please see below for specifcis regarding attendance. Specific attendance policies are the following Missing three classes lowers your final course grade by 5% (approximately a half letter grade). 1. You r final course grade will be lowered an additional 2% for each class missed over and above the first five. Arriving late counts as either ¼ or ½ of a missed class. Missing a required class counts as 1.5 absences, missing the last day counts as two abse nces. Because you are given a 2. If you miss more than 25% of the classes for this course, you cannot receive a grade higher than C. 3. There are no makeup for speeches and exams unless you demonstrate in advance (and I agree) that a significant life - event prevents you from attending class or if you have a documented emergency. The following are not acceptable excuses: scheduled flights or trips, scheduled non - emerg ency doctor appointments, job interviews, picking up relatives at the airport, chauffeuring a friend somewhere, etc. If you schedule something else during a class when you are to give a speech or take an exam, you will get a zero for that grade. Cours e Description : Communication theory applied to business and the professions; emphasis on effective writing; presentation of written and oral case solutions, letters, memoranda, reports, and employment applications; selection and use of research sources; c onsideration of business ethics, technology, and intercultural communication. This course is a writing and project intensive course! Course Topics The following topics and minimum assignments are included in all sections of MGMT 3510: Business Correspond ence Informational/routine /good news message Unpleasant/bad news message Persuasive message (letter of application can substitute for this message ) Career Communication Employment - related communication assignments including a résumé, letter of application and other documents. Business Presentations Oral individual and team presentations (formal and informal) including effective audio - visual components such as PowerPoint and charts. R esearch and Report - writing Research activity/report that demonstrat es the use of gathering, organizing, evaluating, and synthesizing information into a report format using graphics as well as APA style documentation. Professional Career and Image Development Business etiquette and professional development for the job search process. Course Goals and Objectives : To develop an understanding of the theory (principles) of effective communication and the ability to apply these principles to the solving of management problems, especially in the form of written business m essages. Although the emphasis i s not on grammar, spelling, etc., all work is expected to be correct in these areas. If you are not confident in these areas, please take advantage of the U of M writing tutoring and the style cards in your text. Objecti ves : Upon completion of this course, the student is expected to be able to: Understand and d iscuss the communication process ; Plan, organize, and develop a variety of business messag es that display appropriate tones and d emonstrate the use of correct app earance of business documents; Discuss and use listening, oral and nonverbal communication skills; Prepare and deliver an effective oral presentation using Microsoft PowerPoint ; Gather, organize, and evaluate data to write business reports; Prepare employm ent communication messages , including a letter of application and resume; Understand and discuss effective team, interpersonal, and intercultural communication Use critical thinking , ap ply ethical approaches to solving business communication problems , and exhibit desirable work traits (business etiquette) , which promote success in business Academic Course Requirements : The following minimum assignments are included in all sections of MGMT 3510: a. tter b. Textbook online graded quizzes, language reviews, and/or selected assignments from coursemate c. Unpleasant/bad news letter d. Employment communication (l etter of application and résumé minimum requirements) e. Student individual oral presentations (formal and informal) f. Research activity which demonstrates use of gathering, organizing, evaluating, and synthesizing information into report format using APA style documentation g. Business etiquette and team communication activity Grade Components: The final grade wi ll be determined by the number of points earned on examinations, class assignments (including oral and group presentations), and written assignments (memos, letters, class assignments and reports). Some class and written assignments will be completed duri ng class time and without prior notice; others will be completed out side of class. The total points you earn in each grade component will cumulate for the total points in the course. See the chart below for points and grade correlation. Grading Compone nts Point Value Intro Writing Assignment 25 Class participation/attend ance 200 Good news letter 50 Bad news letter 50 Coursemate Assignments 150 Four ecourseware quizzes 200 (50 point each) Social media j ob search/branding strategy p aper 100 Elevator Pitch /persuasive speech a ssignment 100 Team Paper 100 Career Plan 325 Career overview (50) Targeted job (25) Resume (100) Cover letter (50) Ref erence list (25) Thank you letter (25) LinkedIn (25) Final Exam 150 last day of class, you may be exempt from t he final exam. However, you may need that exam to replace another test or exam that you missed due to absence from the class. Quizzes and tests are not made up unless there is an approved absence due to an emergency.) Assignment Information: Check the syllabus for descriptions of each assignment. Any additional i nformation needed to co mplete assignment s will be pr ovided during class as we approach the assignments . Due dates will be announced in class during the semester and are listed tent atively on t he class schedule. All assignments must be typewritten . Assignments with a "rew rite" option will be identified in class. It is your responsibility to stay current with any assignment changes announced in class. Keep your graded assignments they may be used again in the assignments allowed for rewrites and are helpful as you prepare for future assignments in th is course. Because improving your writing is a process, look at how you are changing your writing throughout the semester and continue to enhance your writing effectiveness. grade is assigned to the assignment. Not all assignments will have a rewrite option so it is important for you to maint ain a file of completed coursework. NOTE: Assignments must be submitted in class, on the date due, during the class period, and at the time the instructor makes the request. Please do not email assignments unless we have spoken about the need to do so . If you are going to be absent, you should plan to turn your work in early and let me know that you have an absence on this day. Late work will not be accepted, please plan ahead and meet your assignment deadlines. If an assignment requires a dropbox s ubmission, please note the submission deadline carefully. Submit early to avoid any potential technical difficulty. Late assignments will not be accepted electronically due to computer issues. Plan ahead and submit prior to the last few minutes of the d ropbox submission timeframe. Make up work is not allowed. If you have a legitimate emergency such as a death in the family or serious Credit will not be given for assignments with technology malfunction issues or for incomplete, incorrect, or plagiarized assignments. You may submit assignments early through appropriate communication mediums . Early assignments or those submitted outside of class MUST be received by the profes sor before the scheduled class time. Changes/revisions to PowerPoint slides may be presented in class only. You are responsible for any material/instructions, etc. presented in class. I strongly encourage you to use a flashdrive the UM drive , dropbox.. to stor e your work. This eliminates any stress creation incident due to loss work. This work can also be used for references/resources for future caree work. Assignments/ exams will be returned for review. Assignments/exams physically reviewed during a class period must be returned to the instructor during the same class period. Failure to return any assignment/exam as indicated will result in that assignment/exam a zero for that assignment. Business Etiquette Opportunities : Learning appropriate b usin ess etiquette is important for professional development. The Fogelman College of Business and Economics offers a Business Etiquette Dining Experience as part of The Complete Professional Program . These dining workshops are offered outside of class and wi ll be announce d for interested students. The Dining Etiquette Experience is a great learning experience and should be considered if your schedule permits. Extra credit in the class will be given for this experience. Information will be announced in clas s. For the Dining Experience, due to program donor requests, this option is available only for Fogelman business majors. Extra Credit Opportunities The purpose of these events is to help you with the objectives of the course by p reparing you for multip le employer requirements in s workplace . Take advantage of these opportunities so that you can also work toward your Complete Professional Program certificate. Posting of Grades : All g rades will be posted in eCourseware. Be sure to monitor your gr ades frequently and assess your progress in the class. If you do not understand your grade, please see your instructor. Stay current with your progress and ask questions along the way. Academi c Integrity and Student Conduct: Expectations for academic int egrity and student conduct are described in detail on the website of the Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Affairs ( ). Ple ase review I will expect students to be aware of these guidelines and to conduct themselves accordingly. Academic dishonesty will not be tolerated in any form either by giving or receiving information or work that is not your own. All written your grade. We are here to learn and be successful in this course. Please assume professional - level conduct during class. Conduc t which is considered disruptive includes (but is not limited to) arriving late for class, leaving early, leaving and returning during the class period, having telephones or pagers which ring or beep in class, using a laptop for iPad for non - class related work, and bringing children or other non - enrolled guests to class . Cell Phones: Please silence you r phones when you enter class. Texting in class is considered disruptive to the class and to the instruc tor. Texting during a class assignment, presentatio n, or exam is co nsidered academic dishonesty and will carry the same consequence as cheating and will result in a zero on the assignment. Students with Disabilities. Any student who may need class or test accommodations based on the impact of a disabili ty is encouraged to speak with me privately to discuss your specific needs. Students with disabilities should also contact Disability Resources for Students (DRS) at 110 Wilder Tower, 678 - 2880. DRS coordinates accommodations for students with documented di sabilities. For more information visit the DRS website at . Tentative Course Schedule Fall 2015 Business Communications Section 007 , Lawhead (Changes to the course schedule will be announced to the schedule from class announcements ) Week 1 Course Overview, Chapter 1, 2, 3 (Career Plan I overview) Aug 25 , 27 Co ursemate Presentation August 27 Week 2 Chapters 1 2, Sept 1, 3 I nt ro Assignment Due September 3 CourseMate - Chapter 1 Graded Quiz by 9/3 CourseMate Chapter 2 Fill in the Bank by 9/3 Week 3 Chapter 4, 6 Sept 8, 10 Career Overview Impromptu Presentations Begin Target Job Opportunity Assignment Due 9/ 9 CourseMate Chapter 6 Language 9/17 Cour seMate - Chapter 4 Language Quiz by 9/10 Week 4 Chapters 3 7 13 Sept 15 - 17 Assign Presentation Topics/Dates , Team and Individual Good News Letter Due 9/17 CourseMate - Chapter 3 Media Quiz by 9/1 CourseMate Chapter 7 Fill in the blank 9/17 Ecourseware quiz available September 16/Due September 19 Chapters 1, 2 4 and 6 Week 5 Chapters 13, 12 Sept 22, 24 Team contract due 9/24 Bad News Letter Due 9/24 CourseMate - Chapter 12 Qui z 9/24 Coursemate Chapter 13 Drag and Drop 9/24 Week 6 Chapters 12 , 4, Sept 29, Oct 1 CourseMate Chapter 14 Media Quiz 9/30 Resume, List of References and Cover letter Due 10/1 Ecourseware quiz available September 30/Due October 2 Chapters 3,7,13, and 12 Week 7 Chapter 14, 8 Coursemate Chapter 8 Fill in the Blank A Due 10/9 October 7, 9 October 13 Fall break Week 8 October 15 Chapter 8 Week 9 Chapters 9, 10, October 20, 22 Research Paper Outline and Sources Due for Social Media Paper, APA Reference Page draft 10/23 Sample charts due 10/23 CourseMate Chapter 9 quiz due 10/22 Coursemate Chapter 10 Fill in the blank A Week 10 Chapters 10, 11 October 27, 29 Team presenta tions begin Thank you letter due 10/29 Ecourseware quiz available 10/28 Due October 31 Chapters 8, 14, 5 and 9. November 3 - 5 Team Presentations continue Week 11 Social Media Paper Due November 12 November 10, 12 Begin Individual P resentations Presentation Outline, Copies of PowerPoint, Self - Evaluations Due When Presentation Is Given Ecourseware quiz available 11/11 Due 11/14 Chapters 10 and 11 Week 12 Individual Presentations November 17, 19 Pre sentation Outline, Copies of PowerPoint, Self - Evaluations Due When Presentation Is Given LinkedIn Assignment Due 11/19 Week 13 Individual Presentations November 24 Presentation Outline, Copies of PowerPoint, Self - Evaluations Due When Pr esentation Is Given November 26 Happy Thanksgiving and Happy Birthday to my mom Week 14 Exam Review and Course wrap. December 1 Week 15 Final Exam TBA Room 267 Due to guest speaker opportunities and other course - related cha nges, the professor may need to adjust the schedule periodically. Remember , it is your responsibility to obtain changes to assignments or class schedule changes. Assignment Summary Coursemate assignments - 150 points The instructor will not spend a great deal of time lecturing content that is referenced in the book, but this information is still important to understanding and improving business communications. In order to ensure students are reading and engaging with materials, students will be required t o use coursemate software provided cengage and complete quizzes on due date listed in the syllabus. Students must receive an 80% on all quizzes and complete by date in order to receive grade. Each quiz is worth 25 points. See dates in syllabus for assignme nts and completion dates. Class participation 200 points Students are awarded up to 200 for active class participation. How that is graded is located in ecourseware under topics/class participation. Intro Assignment - 25 points This assignment is use d to help me determine your current level of writing skill s . You are to do the following in this assignment: a) Write a 3 - 4 paragraph letter to me see your text for format, chapters 6 and 7. Include date and inside address . In your 3 - 4 paragraphs, describe yourself in the following ways: classification, major, career interests, your assessment of your communication skills at this point and goals after college. Include anything else that will help me get to know you better. b) All assignments should be typed a nd proofed carefully start here with this good habit. Review samples of letters in your text for the letterhead, inside, and date formats. Be sure to include a proper salutation and closing as well. Business Correspondence assignments Good News Letter: This l etter is based on content in chapter 6 read the chapter carefully before you draft this letter. You will be given appropriate topics in class for this assignment. This assignment should be a one - page letter with letterhead, date, and a minimum of 3 paragraphs. Follow the format for salutations and closings in your text. Proof your work carefully. The assignment details will be posted on eCourseware. Review samples in your text for inside address, date, salutation, and closing formats. 50 points Bad News Letter: This letter is based on content in chapter 7 read the chapter carefull y before you draft this letter. You will be given topics in class for this assignment This letter should be a one - page letter with letterhead, date, and a minimum of 3 paragraphs. Use the same format and directions as in the Good News letter. The assignment details will be posted on the class page in eCourseware. Review your text for samples and letter appearance . 50 points Social Media Strategy/Branding Paper S ocial Media Paper On the strategy you will use to best represent value and brand as a potential candidate for hire Requirements: 3 - 5 appropriate sources (other than your text), use APA for in - text citations and include a Refe rences page. APA should be us ed for the paper format: 1 inch margins all around, 12 point type, double - spaced, and an appropriate cover page (cov er page and reference page do not count in your 4 - 5 pages). Sources for this paper should include professional journal articles, search carefully for appropriate articles. You should have a variety of sources/types. See chapters 9, 10 and 11 for this assignment. Do not use Wikipedia for this repo rt. Sources should be relevant and timely, written in the last 5 years. Review the sources yo u choose for credibility and reliability. Two graphs from chapter 10 should be included describing your findings. Submit drafts of your graphs prior to turning in your paper for review. You are to develop two original charts, based on your sources and c ontent. Your graphs should be incorporated into the text of your paper, not as an appendix . Choose your graphs appropriately based on the type of information you are seeking to communicate. Proof and spellcheck carefully. 100 points Career Plan Assign ment Course Summary Assignment Total Points 325 This project includes aspects of all that you will learn in the course: writing skills, research skills, and career awareness. Make this project a professional level project with appropriate image of your w ork and relevant to your career interests. Text resources for this project are chapters 8, 13 and 14 as well as chapter 4 for writing fundamentals. Focus 2 Assessment - 50 points To assist you in developing your career plan, it is good to take some ass essments that help to identify your strengths, skills, and interests. Go to and take the FOCUS 2 career assessments. Print these out and include in your portfolio (the personality and strengths assessments only). Use the s alary information in the section below and cite your source. These are free assessments; you can also set up your account so that you can go back to these in the future. Print out the Work Interest Chart and summarize 3 - 5 top career paths with salary exp ectations from the summary. Contact the Career Center and learn how to customize your Focus 2 assessment. You can keep this profile for later use as well. a) Your selected or preferred career path and why you believe this is a good option for you. b) Fro m the Focus 2 Assessment, identify your strengths for this path. Elaborate on what you learned from the Focus 2 Assessment about your personality and the career preferences you should consider based on your interests and general personality factors. c) Id entify what action steps you need to take to be a competitive candidate (additional coursework, degree requirements, professional skill development) d) From the Focus 2 Assessments, identify the salary options you might have with this career choice. Also check for additional information. Cite these sources using a Reference page/APA style. e) Mentors identify your current mentors for your career search. If you do not currently have a mentor, identify who you might approach to serve as a me ntor in the future. f) Print the Work Interest Survey chart and include in your paper. g) Select 5 occupations that the survey indicates are good options for you and include those options in your paper. You do not need to print those to submit with yo ur assignment. All of the above elements should be typed, proofed carefully, formatted appropriately, and placed into a clear - front portfolio. Your cover page of your Career Overview section will serve as the title page for your project. Targeted Job Op portunity - 25 points required skills and experienc e. When you develop your résumé , consider those requi rements as you craft your résumé . Resume 100 points T his document should be a one - page résumé , using appropriate format ting . See chapter 13 of yo ur text for examples of resumes as a general review. Print you r final copy on résumé paper. Your résumé should be targeted toward your job posting a bove. The same letterhead you us e for your cover lett er should be used on your résumé . Review several styles of résumé formats position your strengths and skills accordingly. Microsoft templates will not be accep ted, you should develop your personal format. See the FCBE résumé formats in the FCBE Career Corner for formatting your resume. Visit for these formats. Cover Letter 50 Poi nts This letter is a form of persuasive communication you are persuading someone to consider you for a career opportunity. See chapters 8 and 13 for this letter. Use the same letterhead as your résumé . Your goal is for this to look as professional as if you had obtained a résumé specialist to develop these documents for you. 50 points List of References - 25 pints Identify 3 - letterhead, vertically list your re mailing address, email address, and the relationship of your source to you. Use real references always ask permission to use an in See your text for the vertical format and style . Use the same letterhead for each of your documents. Remember to use a variety of references faculty members, work contacts, or volunteer or professional organizational cont acts. Avoid relatives, friends, or distant acquaintances. LinkedIn 50 Points The purpose of this assignment is to launch your participation in LinkedIn ( ) which is an online tool to help you develop professional connections. This too l will be helpful as you complete other assignments for this class. To complete this assignment, complete the following steps: 1. Set up an account on 2. Add your education, work experience with descriptions, a professional photo and Activities/honors/projects/classes that are relevant to your career plans. 3. Join at least 2 groups interest you and relate to your career interests. 4. Establish at least 10 people as 1 st degree contacts through the system. that document. To receive all points on the assignment you need to have at least education, experience and two other areas completed, 10 contacts, 2 groups. In addition, the inform ation you enter should be both professional and thorough, it should make a good impression to future employers. Follow - up/Thank You Letter 25 points This letter is to thank your potential employer for allowing you to visit and interview. Use the same l etterhead and use the complete format with date and inside address. Be sure to use the same employer you have started with in Career Plan I. Make this as realistic as possible. 25 points Class Presentation Assignments Elevator Pitch/Pesruasive Speech Assignment Description 100 points In innovative idea or provides enough information on a topic to pique the interest of an audience or move them to action. As signment Overview and Topic Selection You will create, develop, and present an elevator pitch. The term was coined to refer to a sales pitch that could be delivered during a 30 second elevator ride. Your elevator pitch will be a bit longer, but no more than two minutes in length. The talk will need to be tightly organized, well rehearsed, and delivered without notes or visual aids. For this assignment, you should choose a t opic about which you are well informed, interested, and enthusiastic. You might, for example, pitch a school project you are working on, an organization that you belong to, or your latest innovation. Process You have one deliverable for this assignment , your two minute oral presentation. The following steps will assist you in completing this assignment. 1. Select your topic. 2. Plan your organization and delivery techniques. 3. Practice your talk several times to perfect the timing and flow. 4. Present your talk to the class. Special Features of this Assignment Your presentation should include the following characteristics. A n attention getting opener and a graceful closing with a take away message.. NOTE: You will not have a graceful closing if you ru n over your time limit. An enthusiastic delivery. You must make a connection with the audience and hold their attention. A len gth of no more than 5 minutes Team presentation - 100 points The objective of the group presentations is to allow students the opportunity to research a specified topic and to present their findings to the rest of the class in any format they wish. The presentation will constitute 15% of the final mark and will be graded on both presentation and content. Procedure: Select your group members (5 or 6 per group - choice of members is your own). Report the names of your team members according to instructions on the class web site. - - up sheet on a google doc provided by the - without selecting a topic, but topics are still on a first come first served basis as well. Topic: You and your team members will "team - tra in" the class regarding a certain Management topic. Your team will be required to "train" the other class members on your choice of topic relating to a portion of the material in a chapter to which you are assigned. In addition to the material provided in the textbook, your team must also bring at least 2 outside resources of material to the training session (e.g. a training exercise, additional research that adds to the material, relevant articles or case studies providing examples, etc.). Many methods can be used to train people, and this is your opportunity to gain experience in training. Presentation Details: Total time for presentation, questions a nd changeover is 30 minutes. You should limit your actual meaningful discussion will also be reflected in your grade. (i.e. Leave time for discussion and questions.) Content of these presentations will be examinable. Related questions may appear on any of the course examinations. Team Contract: purpose, division of labor, group roles, pla nning and scheduling work, meetings, rewards and punishments, and provisions for changes to the contract. More details about what should be included in a team contract will be distributed in class. All team members will retain a copy of this contract. As part of your contract, you will have a detailed plan and schedule that will guide your plan for accomplishing your work. This plan should include a schedule of deadl ines and a table of tasks assigned to team members. The more specific your plan, the more useful it will be for you. The plan will be changed and updated as you progress. You will be evaluated based on the following primary criteria: Effectiveness - your method of presentation should be effective in conveying your topic to the class. If at the end of your exercise, the class is still confused regarding the subjects of your exercise, it reflects upon the effectiveness of your presentation. Though these exercises should be fun, not taking them seriously could impair effectiveness. Creativity - any number of methods can be used to conduct your exercise. Your point could likely be conveyed by lecturing to the audience with each group member relating a di fferent aspect of your topic (lacking ingenuity). Other means of conducting your exercise include case analysis, role - playing, experimentation, "game - show playing", or some unique form of audience participation. The idea is to make the material you are try ing to teach the class fun to learn about. Content The material presented meets the project objectives as described above. It is relevant to the chapter chosen, quality research has been done to substantiate the materials presented and team deliver s new learning to the class. Quality - of presentation; appropriate use of language and professional tone; summary points are prepared in order to present mat erial most effectively; team members respond effectively to class discussion points and questions. Your individual grade on the team project will be calculated based on your team grade. To help mitigate - will have the opportunity to provide the instructor with peer evaluations of overall team member performance at the end of the quarter. These peer evaluations will be confidential (seen only by the instructor) and MAY be utilized to adjust your individua l grade (positively or negatively). Peer evaluation forms will be provided and will ask you to assess each team member on areas such as: Participation in team events: did the team member participate in most, if not all, of the assigned team assignment s? Fair workload: did the team member take on his/her share of the overall workload? (required re - working by another team member). Evaluate written work and pre sentation skills. Team interaction skills: did the team member interact effectively with other members of the team? Did the member handle conflicts constructively? Did the member communicate often with other team members? Student Resources and inform ation: Education and Writing Assistance (Free): Educational Support Program (ESP) - provides academic counseling, contact information is The Business Le arning Center: (Room 256, FCBE) - provides tutoring in accounting, statistics, finance, management, and marketing. Writing assistance is also available in Patterson, Room 225 only. Contact number is 901.678.3912. Tutoring: General tutoring ( ) Writing and online tutoring ( ) University of Memphis plagiarism policy and helpful tutorials: UM Policy on Plagiarism , How To Avoid Plagiarism. APA websites: le.org