#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mktg/2015FMKTG3010002.pdf
1 Course Syllabus MKTG 3010 - 002 Principles of Marketing Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Instructor: Anna Michael , MBA , FCBE Marketing Manager Phone : (901) 678 - 5931 E - mail: Anna.Michael@memphis.edu Office: FCBE 357 A (Executive MBA Suite) URL: Office Hours: Tuesdays & Thursdays: 9:30 - 10:30 a.m., and by appointment Course Overview This course in an introduction to the basic concepts used in the practice of marketing. Students completing this course will have an understanding of these concepts as well as a familiarity with their application in business practice. As a full - time market - work experience throughout the course to support students in developing a working knowledge of Marketing and its relevance in the business world. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: You must have a a) junior standing; b) completed 55 hours of coursework; and c) approval to take Upper Division business courses (for business students). If you do not meet these prerequisites, you may be administratively dropped from the course. The compl ete statement of prerequisites for this course is contained in the Undergraduate Bulletin or in the online catalog at Required Text: MKTG 7, by Charles W. Lamb, Joseph F. Hair, Jr., and Carl McDaniel. Southwestern Publishing, Cengage Learning, Inc. Location of Course Materials : All of the PowerPoint slides pertaining to the lectures can be downloaded from eCourseware. Course Objectives At the conclusion of this c ourse, students will be able to: Feel confident in communicating and interacting with marketing professionals by using co ntemporary marketing vocabulary. 2 Define the concept of customer - perceived value and determine how marketing activities lead to the creation, communication, delivery, and exchange of market offerings that hold value for customers. Understand the importance of marketing and market - based resources in shaping corporate and - environment influence marketing strategy design, implementation, and performance. Identify unethical marketing act ivities and their consequences on others and the environment. Identify the emotional and cognitive processes that underlie consumer decision - making and show how these processes may differ across purchase and consumption contexts due to social, p sychological, and product - related factors. Recognize the various approaches that may be applied in segmenting markets and selecting appropriate target markets as well as how marketers apply elements of the marketing mix in shaping distinctive ma rketplace positions in the minds of customers Identify and describe the ways in which ongoing technological and social trends are shaping - term brand relationships. I dentify a nd consider various marketing career opportunities as well as recognize the value of marketing thought for their own professional development, irrespective of their chosen discipline/career. F ogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree Bachelor of Business Administration: Grading and Evaluation Criteria Final Course Grades Your performance will be based on the following criteria: Exam 1: 20% Exam 2: 20% Exam 3: 20% Homework Assignments (4 @ 5% each): 20% Making Marketing Real (2 @ 5% each): 10% Class Participation /Attendance : 10% F inal Exam: 20% You will notice that the above percentages equal 120%. A total of four exams (including the final) will be administered throughout the semester, but only your highest three test scores will be used to compute your final average. If you are happy with your first three scores you may skip the final and use this as least an A or B. I reserve the right to curve the final grade structure so that students may benefit. Grade adjustments work quality throughout the semester. List of Formal Assessed Activities 3 Exams : Three required exams and an optional final will be given. All exams will be administered in - class. Exams will cover material from the textbook, Po werPoint slides, in - class notes, discussions, and other supplementary materials. I will provide a study guide prior to each exam. No make - up exams will be NO phones or electronic devices will be permitted during any test. If you are discovered using electronic devices (or doing any other type of elicit behavior) during an exam period your test will be confiscated and you will receive an immediate zero. You will also not be permitted to wear hats during exams. Bottom line DO NOT CHEAT! Care will be given during the preparation of exams to avoid typographical a nd other errors. However, mistakes do happen, and the instructor may choose to exclude any questions that may contain inadvertent errors. This is dependent solely on the discretion of the instructor. Homework Assignments (20% of your grade) : Four individ ual assignments will be due throughout the semester. Please review the homework assignment sheet (on the content page of eCourseware) for additional details regarding the assignments. All four homework assignments should be turned in on eCourseware via the Dropbox before 8:00 a .m. of the due date. You may also bring a printed hard - copy to class, but you MUST have submitted your homework on the course Web site in order to receive credit. These assignments will be graded for the quality of ideas, grammar , and overall thoroughness. They are to be completed ALONE. Late assignments will not be accepted. They can, however, be turned in early. Please refer to the course schedule for specific due dates. Making Marketing Real (MMR) (10% of your grade) : Marketing is not simply a list of terms or a compilation of theories. As we cover concepts in class, you semester will require you to find a current news article from the bu siness press that represent distinct and different Marketing concepts that we have discussed throughout class . Your written reports will define the highlighted concepts and explain how the concepts were applied into a real business situation. Please identi fy 3 - 4 distinct marketing concepts that relate to your chosen article. The marketing concepts should be clearly identified as section headers throughout your paper. You should follow the appropriate format: Opening Paragraph Concept 1 Concept 2 Concep t 3 Concept 4 (optional) Conclusion Please copy and paste the article or include its corresponding link to your analysis. Your w rite - up should be a minimum of two page s and a maximum of five pages. The MMR assignments should be turned in on eCourse ware via the Dropbox before 8:00 a .m. of the due date. You may also bring a printed hard - copy to class, but you MUST have submitted your article on the course Web site in order to receive credit. These assignments will be graded for the quality of ideas, gramma r , and overall thoroughness. They are to be completed ALONE. Late assignments will not be accepted. They can, however, be turned in early. Please refer to the course schedule for specific due dates. 4 Class Contribution/ Discussion (10% of your grade) : As s tated previously in this syllabus, class attendance and engagement will account for a portion of your overall grade. I will randomly assign projects, discussion questions, quizzes, etc. throughout the course of the semester. If you are present and your wor k is of substantial quality, you will receive high marks. These assignments cannot be made - up. While attendance is not mandatory, coming to class will improve this portion of your final grade and also help make this a meaningful class for you. Schedule of Activities : See the last sheet of the syllabus for our tentative semester schedule. Final Exam Schedule : The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Our final exam will be held on Tuesday, December 8 th from 8:00 a.m. 10:00 a.m. Course Policies E - mail: Email is the best way to get in contact with me, but please DO NOT use the email listed in eCourseware (I never check it). I am on campus Monday Friday, however, I am often in meetings. Please email, Anna.Michael@memphis.edu . I will try to respond to your email within 24 hours Monday Friday. It may take a little longer for me to respond on the weekends. (If you email me after 5:00 p.m. do not expect me to respond to your email prior to our 8:00 a.m. class the following morn ing. If you have questions regarding an assignment or an exam due the next day, please try to email me in advance so that I have time to get back to you.) Attendance & In - class Decorum : Attendance is very important for this class and 10% of your grade wi ll be based on the level and quality in which you participate. I will not take a daily attendance, but I will sporadically give in class assignments that will directly affect your overall grade. If you are absent you will not be able to make up these assig nments. We will also participate in random group activities during the class period. The level of enthusiasm in which you participate in these activities and discussion will impact your grade as well. Of course, on occasion, you may have a conflict and b e unable to attend class, will need to be tardy and/or leave early. If you know you will not be able to attend class, please email me prior. While you will not be able to make up in - class activities, this will not dramatically reduce your overall grade (as suming this is not a frequent occurrence). If you must leave early please tell me before class, sit near the door , and then leave quietly. If you continuously come to class late it will reduce your final score. During class periods I expect you to conduct yourself in a professional manner. Please make sure your cell phones are on silent and put away. Furthermore, I do not tolerate side discussions or disruptive behavior in class. If you are blatantly not paying attention (on your cell phones, computer, etc.) or are otherwise disrupting class (whether distracting other students or myself) you will not r eceive credit for attending class on that particular date. If this is a reoccurring problem, it can drastically reduce your final average. Academic Integrity: Cheating, plagiarism , or any student misconduct is not allowed. Any student caught cheating will receive 5 misconduct are covered in the academic misconduct section of the Code of Stud ent Conduct and Disciplinary Procedures of the Student Handbook. These policies will be strictly enforced in this class. See these policies at duct.htm . You may also review page here, ty.php . ( Office of Student Conduct website ) All of your written work will need to be done in Microsoft Office and submitted through the Dropbox on eCourseware. These assignments will be analyzed with plagiarism software prior to grading. Therefore, make sure Cheating is disrespectful to all parties involved and I take it very seriously. I expect you to conduct yourselves as honest professionals with sound moral character. Late Assig nments: Many reasons are given for late work (e.g. flat tires, printer problems, illness, oversleeping, etc.). However, all work must be turned in ON TIME in order to receive full credit. Plan and schedule your time and have back - up systems in place so you can complete your work by the deadlines. Meeting deadlines is critical to success in business. I suggest you begin now to develop good work habits. In the case of truly extenuating circumstances, please let me know as soon as possible! Extra Credit: NO extra credit opportunities will be offered throughout the semester. Inclement Weather: In the rare case of inclement weather, I will send an email and/or post a message on eCourseware if class will be cancelled. Unless you receive written notification from me, please assume that class will proceed as usual. Syllabus Changes: A detailed class schedule is posted online and as an appendix to this course syllabus. I reserve the right to make changes to the schedule as necessary. It is your responsibility to keep up with these changes as well as any content you might have missed. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance 6 7 TENTATIVE COUSE SCHEDULE Marketing 3010 Fall 2015 PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING Date Topic Assignment T 25 - Aug Course Introduction TR 27 - Aug Overview of Marketing Chapter 1 T 1 - Sep Strategic Planning Chapter 2 TR 3 - Sep Ethics & Social Responsibility Chapter 3; HW 1 DUE T 8 - Sep MKTG Environments & Global Vision Chapters 4 & 5 TR 10 - Sep EXAM 1 T 15 - Sep MSCM Internship Guest Speaker TR 17 - Sep NO CLASS T 22 - Sep Consumer Decision Making Chapter 6 TR 24 - Sep Consumer Decision Making Chapter 6 T 29 - Sep Business Marketing Chapter 7 TR 1 - Oct Segmenting & Target Markets Chapter 8 T 6 - Oct Product Concepts & New Products Chapters 10 & 11; HW 2 DUE TR 8 - Oct EXAM 2 T 13 - Oct FALL BREAK TR 15 - Oct Services & Nonprofits Chapter 12; MMR 1 DUE T 20 - Oct Market Channels & Retailing Chapter 14 TR 22 - Oct Market Channels & Retailing Chapter 14 T 27 - Oct Marketing Communications Chapter 15; HW 3 DUE TR 29 - Oct Adv., PR & Sales Promotions Chapter 16 T 3 - Nov Adv., PR & Sales Promotions Chapter 16 TR 5 - Nov EXAM 3 T 10 - Nov Personal Selling Chapter 17; HW 4 DUE TR 12 - Nov Personal Selling Chapter 17 T 17 - Nov Social Media & Marketing Chapter 18 TR 19 - Nov Social Media Guest Speaker T 24 - Nov Pricing Concepts Chapter 19 TR 26 - Nov THANKSGIVING T 1 - Dec Creativity Workshop Day MMR 2 DUE TR 3 - Dec STUDY DAY T 8 - Dec FINAL EXAM (8:00 - 10:00 a.m.) (This schedule is subject to change. Any changes will be announced in class.)