#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3510301.pdf
B usiness Communication, MGMT 3510, Section 3 0 1 Fall 201 5 Main Campus TTH 1 : 0 0 p .m. - 2 : 2 5 p.m. , Room 26 5, 3 Credit Hours P ROFESSOR: Dr. Barbara D. Davis OFFICE: Room 328, Business Building AREA: Management PHONE/FAX: 678 - 3932 (phone) 678 - 2685 (fax ) E - Mail: bddavis@memphis.edu OFFICE HRS: 10 : 0 0 a .m. - 1 1 : 3 0 a .m. TTh & by Appt . Course Management: onor%20MGMT3510 and e C ourseware Text: Lehman, C. M., and DuFrene, D. D. (20 1 6 ). B COM 7 . Mason, OH: South - Western Cengage Learning . Course Key: CM - 9781305403185 - 0000035 NOTE: (A als. Register the ACCESS code included in the book, then input your COURSEKEY provided by your instructor for this section of the course. Used books will require that you purchase a separate ACCESS code, which costs as much as a new book.) Course Descrip tion : Communication theory applied to business and the professions; emphasis on effective writing; presentation of written and oral case solutions, letters, memoranda, reports, and employment applications; selection and use of research sources; considerat ion of business ethics, technology, and intercultural communication. COURSE PREREQUISITE: MIS 2749, or equivalent. [W] NOTE:THIS IS A WRITING INTENSIVE COURSE! Course Goals and Objectives : To develop an understanding of the theory (principles) of effec tive communication and the ability to apply these principles to the solving of management problems, especially in the form of written business messages. Although the emphasis i s not on grammar, spelling, etc., all work is expected to be correct in these areas. Objectives . Upon completion of this course, the student is expected to be able to: 1. Understand and d iscuss the communication process ; 2. Plan, organize, and develop a variety of business messag es that display appropriate tones and d emonstrat e the use of correct appearance of business documents; 3 . Discuss and use listening, oral and nonverbal communication skills; 4 . Prepare and deliver an effective oral presentation using Microsoft PowerPoint ; 5 . Gather, organize, and evaluate data to wri te business reports; 6 . Prepare employment communication messages , including a letter of application and resume; 7. Understand and discuss effective team, interpersonal, and intercultural communication 8 . Use critical thinking , ap ply ethical approa ches to solving business communication problems , and exhibit desirable work traits (business etiquette) , which promote success in business. Academic Course Requirements : The following topics and minimum assignments are included in all sections of MGMT 3510: a. Textbook online graded quizzes, language reviews, and/or selected online assignments b. Informational/routine message c. Unpleasant/bad news message d. Persuasive message (letter of application can substitute for this message ) e. Employment communic ation (letter of application and resume minimum requirements) f. Student individual oral presentations (formal and informal) g. Research activity which demonstrates use of gathering, organizing, evaluating, and synthesizing information into report format using g raphics as well as APA style documentation h. Business etiquette (See Etiquette under Resources) and team communication activity MGMT3510, Fall, 201 5 Page 2 Grade Components . The final grade will be determined by the number of points earned on examinations , class assignments (including oral and group presentations), and written assignments (memos, letters, and reports). Some class and written assignments will be completed during class time and without prior notice; others will be completed out of class. Grade Components: Grading Scale : Assignments/Attendance 30 % A = 90 - 100% of total points possible Exams 2 0 % B = 80 - 89% of total points possible Reports (Oral/Written/Group) 50% C = 70 - 79% of total points possible TOTAL 100% D = 60 - 69% of total points possible The total points you earn in each grade component of the course will be divided by the total points possible for that component. The appropriate percentage will then be calculated for each component to det ermine your final percentage/grade. (Plus/Minus [+/ - ] grading system will not be used in this class). Assignments . Access to i nformation to complete each assignment along with grading sheets that list requirements will be provided as need ed . Due dates a re listed on the class schedule . All assignments must be k e yed . Assignments with a "rewrite" option will be identified. NOTE: R eview / familiarize yourself with the Homework Guide located on the umdrive for this class. Any assignment evaluation criterio n excessively violated will result in a 25 percent reduction of points from the total points possible. Assignments must be submitted in class, on the date due, during the class period, and at the time the instructor makes the request. DO NOT put assignm ents under There are NO provisions for make - up work. Credit will not be given for assignments with technology malfunction issues or for incomplete, incorrect, or plagiarized assignments. You may submit assignments early (prior approval required) through appropriate communication mediums . Early assignments or those submitted outside of class MUST be received by the professor before the scheduled class time. Assignments/exams will be returned for your review. As signments/exams physically reviewed during a class period must be returned to the instructor during the same class period. Failure to return any assignment/ - exam as indicated will result in that assignment/exam being disallowed for grade computation. An y request to reconsider points earned or missed on a graded assignment / exam must be in writing (correct letter format attached to an email or submitted hard copy) and submitted within 7 days of the professor providing the graded assignment /exam to the class . Student work will be held ONE semester after the end of the course. Please r etrieve any of your materials by that deadline. Exams/Final Exam . Exams will generally consist of true - false, multiple - choice, short answer, essay, and completion questio ns as well as application exercises. The final exam is optional and c omprehensive . Administrative Course Requirements: Class Attendance . Enrollment in this course obligates the student not only for prompt completion of all work assig ned but also for punctual and regular attendance and for participation in any class discussion that may occur. Absences do not absolve him/her of this responsibility . It is the student's responsibility to keep informed concerning all assignments made and information presented in class , but not by contacting the professor for information about what was missed during class or requesting that the professor review . If you are absent during a scheduled EXAM , the FIN AL EXAM will substitute for the missed exam. You can only use the FINAL EXAM to replace ONE Exam grade. Absence from more than 10 percent of the scheduled class sessions is considered excessive. If you must exceed this 10 percent maximum, withdrawing fr om the course should be considered. A ll absences are counted; therefore, the professor does not grant excused absences. Credit for class attendance requires that you arrive on time and stay (in class) the entire period. MGMT3510, Fall, 201 5 Page 3 Posting of Grades . G rades will be posted to the eCourseware site; however, you should k eep an accurate record of your progress in this course. Academic Integrity and Student Conduct . Expectations for academic integrity and student conduct are describe d in detail on the website of the Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Affairs . Please take a look, in particular, at the sections about , - misconduct/index.php as well as the section on Academic Dishonesty , ww.memphis.edu/studentconduct/academic - misconduct/resources.php or . I will expect students to be aware of these guidelines and to conduct themsel ves accordingly. Conduct which is considered disruptive as well as equated to a class absence and is a basis for ejection from the class includes (but is not limited to) arriving late for class, leaving early, leaving and returning during the class period , having telephones or pagers which ring or beep in class, using electronic devices (texting, surfing web, etc.) in class, and bringing children or other non - enrolled guests to class . Communication Protocol. S ee the professor during office hours rat her than publicly di scussing any personal situation during class or in the 15 minute interval between class es . Electronic Devices. The professor reserves the right to prohibit the use of electronic devices during class. All electronic devices must be pu t in silent mode during class. ADA Statement. To receive disability related accommodations and services, students must first register with Disability Resources for Students (DRS), 110 Wilder Tower, 678 - 2880. DRS coordinates accommodations for student s with documented disabilities ( ) Prerequisites . Students must have earned a minimum of 45 credit hours and have met specific course prerequisites with a minimum grad these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower division business courses with a minimum minimum of 2.25 GPA (2.5 for accounting majors) in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1830 or 1910, and (3) 45 hours of course work including MATH 1830 or 1910, COMM 2381 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degre e Requirements - General Requirements). Non - Business majors must have junior or senior standing and have met specific prerequisites of courses. Students are responsible for ensuring that requirements are met; otherwise, administrative drop actions may be im plemented. BBA Degree Program Learning Outcomes The learning outcomes for this degree program are located on the following URL. Notice that Goals indicate Learning Outcomes for the degree program. The objectives under each learning outcome indicate what must be done to reach the learning outcome. Faculty members in the Fogelman College developed these learning outcomes and periodically assess students to determine the level that the learning outcomes are being met. URL: MGMT3510, Fall , 201 5 Page 4 Resources, Education and Writing Assistance (FREE): APA format websites : or h Alphanumeric Outline Example: Career Corner: Career Services: Educationa l Support Program (ESP) - provides academic counseling, contact information is Professional Development Center Programs: The Business Learning Center : (Room 256, FCBE) - provides tutoring in accounting, statistics, finance, management, and marketing. Writing assistance is also available in Patterson, Room 225 onl y. Contact number is 901.678.3912. The Center for Writing and Communication: , First Floor Ned R. McWherter Library Tutoring: General tutoring ( ) Writing and online tutoring ( ) University of Memphis /Fogelman College plagiarism policy and helpful tutorials: Plagiarism Study efficiencies/t ime management - Mitchell Hall, Room 207 Etiquette: MGMT 3510 Students are given priority for enrollment in Business Etiquette Dining Sessions. and pocket car d for $10 registration. Sessions are held Fall and Spring semesters at the Fogelman Executive Center (Main Campus), 330 Innovation Drive. Register through the Professional Development Center: