#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mktg/2015FMKTG3010003.pdf
Course Syllabus MKTG 3010 003 Principles of Marketing Mondays , 7:10 p.m. 10:10 p.m. Fall Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8/22 /2015) Instructor: Wendy Barnes McEntee E - mail: wmbarnes@memphis.edu Office: FCBE Room 359 Twitter: @WBMcEntee LinkedIn: Wendy McEntee (search) Office Hours: Wednesdays, 12:00 p.m. 2: 00 p.m. Appointments can be made for other times via email. I strongly encourage you to email me for an appointment before showing up during office hours. First consideration will be given to students who schedule an appointment. Course Overview Comprehensive study of structure and functions of marketing system in the firm, economy, and society; analysis of target markets, environments, and managerial aspects of marketing practices; comprehensive overview of key components of product and service marketing including brand positioning, pricing, promoting, distribution and selling. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no official pre - requisites or co - requisites for this course. However, I recommend that students complete both courses in business statistics and economics before taking this course. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Marketing by C. Shane Hunt and John E. Mello McGraw - Hill Education, 2015 , ISBN: 978 - 0 - 07 - 786109 - 4 Another outside business book will be required. A list of pre - approved books will be provided. This textbook has accompanying website with supplementary materials. Course access is not required for this class, but may be useful to you. Purchasing an acce ss code is strictly up to the individual student. Page 2 Location of Course Materials : All course material can be found in your textbook, will be given out during class, or will be located on the course website, which is found through . Course Objectives : This course is an introduction to the basic concepts used in the practice of marketing. Students completing this course are expected to have an understanding of these concepts as well as a beginning familiarity with their application in business practi ce. At the conclusion of this co - Feel confident in communicating and int eracting with marketing professionals by using contemporary marketing vocabulary. - Define the concept of customer - perceived value and determine how marketing activities lead to the creation, communication, delivery, and exchange of market offerin gs that hold value for customers. - Understand the importance of marketing and market - based resources in shaping corporate and business strategies as well as identify how elements of the - environment influence marketing str ategy design, implementation, and performance. - Identify unethical marketing activities and their consequences on others and the environment. - Identify the emotional and cognitive processes that underlie consumer decision - making and show how these processes may differ across purchase and consumption contexts due to social, psychological, and product - related factors. - Recognize the various approaches that may be applied in segmenting markets and selecting appropriate target markets as well as how marketers apply elements of the marketing mix in shaping distinctive marketplace positions in the minds of customer s - Identify and describe the ways in which ongoing technological and social trends are - term brand relationships. - Identify and consider various marketing career opportunities as well as recognize the value of marketing thought for their own professional development, irrespective of their chosen discipline/career. Students will attempt to put their understanding of these concepts to use through exams, group work, and class assignments. By completing these activ ities, students will have the opportunity to develop a basic, working knowledge of effective marketing concepts and their use in business, as well as begin to understand the importance of personal branding. Page 3 Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program : Course Methodology : This is an on - ground class and will be taught using the textbook, additional popular books, and online resources. Class time will be spent hearing lectures, engaging in discussion, and participating in group activities. You NEED a book for this class! Do not try to get through b y relying on PowerPoint slides as y ou w ill most likely be disappointed . G rading and Evaluation Criteria Your performance in this course will be evaluated using exams, assignments, a group book report, a personal marketing plan, and a peer review. Your accumulated points for the semester will determine your grade. Some work is to be submitted through the course dropbox, some in class, and some in both places. Please follow the proper submission procedures for each assignment. Unless otherwise specified, all written work should be in 12 point Times New Roman font with one inch m argins. Proper grammar (i.e., spelling, capitalization, punctuation) is required. Outside sources should be cited appropriately. Each course requirement will be detailed in separate instructions. Please discretion. Final Course Grades : A total of 800 points will be allocated over a variety of di fferent activities during this class. Grades for this class will be assigned as follows: Grade Percent Range Points Range A Range 90% - 100% 720 800 B Range 80% - 89% 640 719 C Range 70% - 79% 560 639 D Range 60% - 69% 480 559 F Below 60% Below 480 The plus/minus grading system will be used in this course. Page 4 Course Topics : Part One: Marketing in the Twenty - First Century Textbook Readings: Chapter 1 Why Marketing Matters to You Chapter 2 Strategic Planning for a Successful Future Chapter 3 Analyzing Your Environment Part Two: Understanding Your Customer Textbook Readings: Chapter 4 Marketing Research Chapter 5 Knowing Your Customer Chapter 6 Developing Your Product Chapter 7 Segmenting, Targeti ng, and Finding Your Market Position Part Three: Reaching Your Customer Textbook Readings: Chapter 8 Promotional Strategies Chapter 9 Supply Chain and Logistics Management Chapter 10 Pricing for Profit and Customer Value Chapter 11 Build ing Successful Brands Part Four: Responding to Your Customer Textbook Readings: Chapter 12 Managing Your Customer Relationships Chapter 13 Social Responsibility and Sustainability Chapter 14 Measuring Marketing Performance As a supplement to all four parts, a popular busin ess book is required. This book will be chosen from a pre - determined list. List and Schedule of Formal Assessed Activities : More detailed explanations of class activities can be found on the course website. Quizzes (200 points total): Quiz 1 - Saturday , September 19 , 2015 at 8:00 a.m. (50 points) Quiz 2 - Saturday , O ctober 10 , 2015 at 8:00 a.m. (50 points) Quiz 3 - Saturday , November 7 , 2015 at 8:00 a.m. (50 points) Quiz 4 - Saturday , N ovember 2 8 , 2015 at 8:00 a.m. (50 points) Assignments (100 points total): Assignment 1 Thursday, August 27, 2015 at 11:55 p.m. (50 points) Assignment 2 Monday , August 31 , 2015 at 7 :00 p.m. (50 points) Professional Book Report (150 points total): Formal Outline and Memo (100 points) Peer Review Assessment (50 po ints) All three are due on Monday , November 30, 2015 at 7:10 p.m. Page 5 Personal Marketing Plan (250 points total): Mid - semester check in Monday , October 5 , 2015 at 7:10 p.m. (50 points) Final P ersonal Marketi ng Plan Monday , November 16 , 2015 at 7:10 p.m. (200 po ints) Final Exam (100 points): To be given in - class, Monday , December 7 , 2015 Final Exam Schedule : The final exam period for this class will take place on Monday, December 7 , 2015, at 7:10 p.m. The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Course Policies E - MAIL: The best way to contact me is through email. I am committed to responding to your emails within 48 hours unless extenuating circumstances exist. All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all official course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail Attendance: Attendance at all class meetings is highly encouraged, although role will not be taken and no grade penalt y will be attached to your attendance. You are responsible for all material covered in class as well as the material in the textbook. Some of the quiz and exam questions will come directly from class discussions. Adding/Dropping : If you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a heating. Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questio ns about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Page 6 Participation: A participation grade f or this class will not be assigned. But, we will all find class to be more interesting and discussion livelier when all students are involved. You are expected to prepare for class. Students will be called upon to answer questions and give opinions. Rememb Classroom or Online Behavior: The following procedures are outlined here in order to help provide the best classroom experience possible for you to master the course material. Please make every effort to abide by these procedures for the benefit of yourself and your classmates. - Come t o class on time. If you arrive late, please try to minimize the disruption to your classmates while you find a seat. - reason is disruptive, no matter how quiet you try to be . - Turn off your cell phone. Texting in class is not acceptable. - During the course of the semester, the class schedule may change. It is your responsibility to be aware of any changes that may occur. Check the course website frequently. - Feel free to use el ectronic devices for note - taking and general classroom use. This is a privilege, not a right. Therefore, if using any sort of electronic device during class time, it is expected that you will be using it for class purposes only. - Classroom lectures and disc ussion may not be audio - recorded without prior permission from the instructor. Late Assignments: Late assignments will not be accepted. If you miss assignments, quizzes, or any other in - class activities you will not be allowed to make them up. Please note that lack of access to the Internet is not considered an acceptable excuse for not completing coursework. Extra Credit: Students who find that their performance in this class is not what they want should come see me early in the course before time becomes too short to find a way to solve their problems. Opportunities for extra points may be available, but only to those who are present and actively participating in class. Reporting Illness or Absence: While class attendance is not mandatory, please send me an email, as a courtesy, to let me know if you are going to miss class for any reason. Page 7 Inclement Weather: In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at The University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immediately notified. Additionally, The University of Memphis has established an Inclement Weather Hotline at 9 01 - 678 - 0888 as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled un iversity closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather. Click Here for information on TigerText. Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the course, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email communication and posting both notification and nature of change (s) on the course bulletin board in ecourseware. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance