#http://www.memphis.edu/annualgiving/affinity/faculty-staff.php
Faculty and Staff - Annual Giving - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Annual Giving Donate Now Giving Options Affinity Groups Matching Gifts FAQs Affinity Groups Alumni &amp; Friends Faculty &amp; Staff Parents &amp; Families Recent Grads Students Home Annual Giving Affinity Groups Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Giving Every member of the faculty and staff is important to the success of the University of Memphis. As a campus community, we work together daily to make possible the dreams of our students. There is an additional way we can contribute toward their success and make a lasting impact on our University. Our collective participation in the Faculty and Staff Giving Campaign to say "I'M IN!" offers a tremendous opportunity to show our support for this great institution and inspire confidence in other alumni, friends, parents, foundations, corporations and donors – the lifeblood of our institution. Say "I'M IN" Today! Visit the Employee tab on the myMemphis portal. Already a Donor? Should you already carry the title of "Donor," thank you for your support! Please know that your participation has made the University of Memphis what it is today and will indeed make a lasting impact for the future. News About This Year's Campaign Meet the Co-Chairs Dr. Marian Levy Assistant Dean, School of Public Health Proud Tiger Since 2007 Armie Williams Human Resources Associate Proud Tiger Since 1988 Meet Your Department Champions Thank you to this year's Faculty and Staff Campaign Department Champions! Department Champions are chosen for the passion they have for the university. Champions are responsible for sharing campaign news with colleagues, answering questions, encouraging participation, creating awareness and being a voice for their department or college. Champions are vital to the success of the Faculty and Staff Campaign and make an annual gift personally as a True Blue Tiger. Please consider serving as your Department's Faculty and Staff Campaign Champion to help us ensure that every department on campus makes the commitment to say "I'm In"! Frequently Asked Questions Questions about the Faculty and Staff Campaign? Click here for answers to frequently asked campaign questions. For more campaign details, please contact the Office of Annual Giving at umannualgiving@memphis.edu . Affinity Groups Alumni &amp; Friends Faculty &amp; Staff Parents &amp; Families Recent Grads Students Give Now Click here to make your annual gift today! Senior Class Gift Win an iPad and be recognized in the commencement program! Faculty and Staff It’s not too late to participate in this year’s campaign! Phonathon Student Callers We’re recruiting great students who enjoy talking to our alumni! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .