#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3510502.pdf
MGMT 3510 - Section 502 2015 - (Last updated: 8/21/2015) Instructor: Joel M. Nichols, Instructor Phone: 901.277.3105 E - mail: jmnchols@memphis.edu Office Hours: By Appointment Course Overview Communication theory applied to business and the professions; emphasis on effective writing; presentation of written and oral case solutions, letters, memoranda, reports, and employment applications; selection and use of research sources; consideration of business ethics, technology, and intercultural communication. NOTE:THIS IS A WRITING INTENSIVE COURSE . Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: COURSE PREREQUISITE: MIS 2749, or equivalent. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Text: Lehman, C. M., and DuFrene, D. D. (2016 ). BCOM7. Mason, OH: South - Western Cengage Learning. NOTE: Register the ACCESS code included in the book, then input your COURSEKEY provided by your instructor for this section of the course. Used books will require that you purchase a separate ACCESS code, which costs as much as a new book.) Location of Course Materials : eCourseware: Course content files a nd tests can be found in eCourseware by logging into this course at MindTap Login: 1 Instructions and list of required MindTap activites are located in eCourseware under the Assignments module. Please note that login to MindTap is outside of eCourseware. However, MindTap login link can be found in eCourseware under Getting Started module. Course Objectives : To develop an understanding of the theory (principles) of effective communication and the ability to apply these principles to the solving of management problems, especially in the form of written business messages. Although the emphasis is not on grammar, spelling, etc., all work is expected to be correct in these areas. Objectives. Upon completion of this course, the student is expected to be able to: 1. Understand and discuss the communication process; 2. Plan, organize, and develop a variety of business messages that display appropriate tones and demonstrate the use of correct appearance of business documents; 3. Discuss and use listening, oral and nonverbal communication skills; 4. Prepare and deliver an effective oral presentation using Microsoft PowerPoint; 5. Gather, organize, and evaluate data to write business reports; 6. Prepare employment communication messages, including a letter of application and resume; 7. Understand and discuss effective team, interpersonal, and intercultural communication 8. Use critical thinking, apply ethical approaches to solving business communication problems, and exhibit desirable work traits (business etiquette), which promote success in business. Academic Course Requirements : The following topics and minimum assignments are included in all sections of MGMT 3510: a. assignments b. Informational/routine message c. Unpleasant/bad news messa ge d. Persuasive message (letter of application can substitute for this message) e. Employment communication (letter of application and resume minimum requirements) f. Student individual oral presentations (formal and informal) g. Research activity which demonstrates use of gathering, organizing, evaluating, and synthesizing information into report format using graphics as well as APA style documentation h. Business etiquette (See Etiquette under Resources) and team communication activity Fogelman College: Learning Out comes for Your Degree The Fogelman College of Business & Economics is accredited by AACSB (The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business). As such, we are required to adhere to stated learning outcomes for our students. Learning outcomes for the BBA degree are reinforced in this class where relevant, and can be found at this link: comes.pdf 2 Grading and Evaluation Criteria Grade Components . The final grade will be determined by the number of points earned on examinations , class assignments, and written assignments . Some class and written assignments will be completed during class time and without prior notice; others will be completed out of class. Grade Components: Grading Scale : Assignments/Attendance 30% A = 90 - 100% of total points possible Exams 20% B = 80 - 89% of total points possible Reports (Oral/Written/Group) 50% C = 70 - 79% of total points possible TOTAL 100% D = 60 - 69% of total points possible The total points you earn in each grade component of the course will be divided by the total points possible for that component. The appropriate percentage will then be calculated for each component to determine your final percentage/grade. (Plus/Minus [+/ - ] grading system will not be used in this class). Assignments . Access to information to c omplete each assignment along with grading sheets that list requirements will be provided as needed. Due dates are listed on the class schedule. All assignments must be keyed . Assignments with a "rewrite" option will be identified. NOTE: R eview/familia rize y ourself with the Homework Guide for this class. Any assignment evaluation criterion excessively violated will result in a 25 percent reduction of points from the total points possible. Assignments must be submitted in class, on the date due, during the class period, and at the time the instructor makes the request. DO NOT There are NO provisions for make - up work. Credit will not be given for assignments with technology malfunctio n issues or for incomplete, incorrect, or plagiarized assignments. You may submit assignments early (prior approval required) through appropriate communication mediums . Early assignments or those submitted outside of class MUST be received by the profess or before the scheduled class time. Assignments/exams will be returned for your review. Assignments/exams physically reviewed during a class period must be returned to the instructor during the same class period. Failure to return any assignment/ - exam as indicated will result in that assignment/exam being disallowed for grade computation. Any request to reconsider points earned or missed on a graded assignment / exam must be in writing (correct letter format attached to an email or submitted ha rd copy) and submitted within 7 days of the professor providing the graded assignment/exam to the class. Student work will be held ONE semester after the end of the course. Please retrieve any of your materials by that deadline. 3 Final Exam Schedule Exams/Final Exam . Exams will generally consist of true - false, multiple - choice, short answer, essay, and completion questions as well as application exercises. The final exam is optional and comprehensive. Final Course Grades Posting of Grades . Grades will be posted to the eCourseware site; however, you should keep an accurate record of your progress in this course. Course Policies Administrative Course Requirements: Class Attendance . Enrollment in this course obligates the student for prompt completion of all work assigned and for participation in any class discussion s (onsite or online) that may occur. Absences do not absolve him/her of this respon sibility. It is the student's responsibility to keep informed concerning all assignments made and information presented in class, but not by contacting the professor for information about what was missed during class or requesting that the professor revie during a scheduled EXAM , the FINAL EXAM will substitute for the missed exam. You can only use the FINAL EXAM to replace ONE Exam grade. Academic Integrity and Student Conduct . Expectations for academic integrity and student conduct are described in detail on the website of the Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Affa ct/academic - misconduct/index.php as well as the section on - misconduct/resources.php or . I will expect students to be aware of these guidelines and to conduct themselves accordingly. Conduct which is considered disruptive as well as equa ted to a class absence and is a basis for ejection from the class includes (but is not limited to) arriving late for class, leaving early, leaving and returning during the class period, having telephones or pagers which ring or beep in class, using electro nic devices (texting, surfing web, etc.) in class, and bringing children or other non - enrolled guests to class . 4 Guidelines For Communication Instructor Contact: Please use jmnchols@memphis.edu email as the primary means for contacting the Instructor. If you wish to speak to the Instructor, please first email to set up a meeting either by phone, Face - to - face meetings are during office hours and are by appointment only. The I nstructor will make every attempt to respond to email inquiries within 24 hours during the work week. Students will be notified when the Instructor is not available to meet the stated response time through class meeting, email, and in eCourseware news post ings. Electronic Devices. The professor reserves the right to prohibit the use of electronic devices during class. All electronic devices must be put in silent mode during class. ADA Statement. To receive disability related accommodations and services, students must first register with Disability Resources for Students (DRS), 110 Wilder Tower, 678 - 2880. DRS coordinates accommodations for students with documented disabilities ( ) Prerequisites. Students must have earned a minimum of 45 credit hours and have met 4000 level co urses. In addition to these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower (2.5 for accounting majors) in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1830 or 1910, and (3) 45 hours of course work including MATH 1830 or 1910, COMM 2381 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements - General Requirements). Non - Business ma jors must have junior or senior standing and have met specific prerequisites of courses. Students are responsible for ensuring that requirements are met; otherwise, administrative drop actions may be implemented. BBA Degree Program Learning Outcomes The le arning outcomes for this degree program are located on the following URL. Notice that Goals indicate Learning Outcomes for the degree program. The objectives under each learning outcome indicate what must be done to reach the learning outcome. Faculty m embers in the Fogelman College developed these learning outcomes and periodically assess students to determine the level that the learning outcomes are being met. URL: Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance 5 Resources, Education and Writing Assistance (FREE): APA format websites: style.org/ or Alpha numeric Outline Example: Career Corner: Career Services: Educational Support Program (ESP) - provides academic counseling, contact in formation is Professional Development Center Programs: The Business Learning Center: (Room 256, FCBE) - provides tutoring in accounting, statistics, finance, management, and marketing. Writing assistance is also available in Patterson, Room 225 only. Contact number is 901.678.3912. The Center for Writing and Com munication: , First Floor Ned R. McWherter Library Tutoring: General tutoring ( ) Writing and online tutoring ( ) University of Memphis/Fogelman College plagiarism policy and helpful tutorials: Plagiarism ts/plagiarism.php Study efficiencies/time management - Mitchell Hall, Room 207 Etiquette: MGMT 3510 Students are given priority for enrollment in Business Etiquette Dining Sessions. and pocket card for $10 registration. Sessions are held Fall and Spring semesters at the Fogelman Executive Center (Main Campus), 330 Innovation Drive. Register through the Professional Development Center: nal/academics/dining_etiquette.php 6