#http://act.memphis.edu/news.php
Mid South Access Center for Technology ACT :: Mid-South ACT News :: University of Memphis Skip to Navigation. | Skip to Main Content. | Skip to Search Form. Mid-South ACT Home About ACT VATR Lab Services Information News &amp; Newsletters Contact Us Donations A - Z U of M Quick Links ------------------ Outlook Bursar's Office Events Calendar Jobs eCourseware (UM) eLearn (RODP) Bookstore Ask TOM Employee Self Service Campus Map Library FedEx Institute Transcripts UMdrive iAM Police Services Contact Us Mid-South ACT News Calendar Conferences Mid-South ACT Announces Accessing GED® Test Preparation Program for Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) Clients with Physical and/or Visual Disabilities that will Aid in Accessing GED® Test Preparation Materials! ...click for flyer Mid-South ACT Announces Accessing GRE® Test Preparation Program for Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) Clients with Physical and/or Visual Disabilities that will Aid in Accessing GRE® Test Preparation Materials! ...click for flyer Hamilton Relay Scholarship (Deadline has Passed) The Hamilton Relay Scholarship is an opportunity for graduating high school students in Tennessee who are deaf, hard of hearing, deaf-blind or have difficulty speaking to assist in their goals of continuing their education. The attached scholarship application and information is for eligible students. Hamilton Relay selects one candidate from each of the states where Hamilton is the contracted service provider. All candidates are required to submit an application, write an essay under the topic of communication technology and provide a letter of recommendation in order to qualify. The application documents can also be found online at . The scholarship deadline is March 1, 2013 and applications must be received or postmarked by this date. The scholarship is in the amount of $500 and the winner will be determined on or before April 30, 2013. Forms: 2013 Hamilton Relay Scholarship - Guidelines for Schools 2013 Hamilton Relay Scholarship - Talent Release 2013 Hamilton Relay Scholarship - Application 2012 Archived Events 2011 Archived Events Last Updated: 5/19/15