#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3510503.pdf
Business Commu nication, MGMT 3510, Section Fall 2015 The University of Memphis , Millington Campus, W 5:00PM - 9:45PM , FCBE Hyrbrid Instructional Method (Lecture/Online) PROFESSOR: Ricks Mason OFFICE: Main Office , Business Building AREA: Management Phone: (901) 281 - 3546 E - Mail: masonr04@yahoo.com Office Hours: By Appt. Text: Lehman, C. M., and DuFrene, D.D. (2014 ). BCOM (7th h ed.) Mason, OH: South - Western Cengage Learning. Course Description : Communication theory applied to business and the professions; emphasis on effective writing; presentation of written and oral case solutions, letters, memoranda, reports, and employment applications; selection and use of research sources; consideration of business ethics, technology, and intercultural communication.[W] NOTE:THIS IS A WRITING INTENSIVE COURSE! Course Goals and Objectives : To develop an understanding of the theory (principles) of effective communication and the ability to apply these principles to the solving of management problems, especially in the form of wri tten business messages. Although the emphasis is not on grammar, spelling, etc., all work is expected to be correct in these areas. Objectives . Upon completion of this course, the student is expected to be able to: 1. Understand and discuss the communi cation process; 2. Plan, organize, and develop a variety of business messages that display appropriate tones and demonstrate the use of correct appearance of business documents; 3. Discuss and use listening, oral and nonverbal communication skills; 4. Prepare and deliver an effective oral presentation using Microsoft PowerPoint; 5. Gather, organize, and evaluate data to write business reports; 6. Prepare employment communication messages, including a letter of application and resume; 7. Understand and discuss effective team, interpersonal, and intercultural communication 8. Use critical thinking, apply ethical approaches to solving business communication problems, and exhibit desirable work traits (business etiquette), which promote success in business. Academic Course Requirements : The following minimum assignments are included in all sections of MGMT 3510: a. Informational/routine letter b. Unpleasant/bad news letter c. Persuasive letter (letter of application can substitute fo r this letter) d. Employment communication (letter of application and resume minimum requirements) e. Student individual oral presentations (formal and informal) f. Research activity which demonstrates use of gathering, organizing, evaluating, and synth esizing information into report format using APA style documentation g. Business etiquette and team communication activity Grade Components: Grading Scale: Attendance - P articip ation 25% 90 - 100%=A Written Assignments 25% 80 - 89% = B Reports - Presentations(Individua l/Group) 25% 70 - 79% = C Exams 25% 60 - 69% = D MGMT3510 PG 2 Assignments. Access to information to complete each assignment along with grading shee ts that list requirements will be provided as needed. Due dates are listed on the class schedule. All assignments must be keyed . Assignments with a "rewrite" option will be identified. NOTE: R eview/familiarize yourself with the Homework Guide located on the umdrive for this class. Any assignment evaluation criterion excessively violated will result in a 25 percent reduction of points from the total points possible. Assignments must be submitted in class, on the date due, during the class period, and at the time the instructor makes the request. DO NOT put assignments under the door or mailbox. There are NO provisions for make - up work. Credit will not be given for assignments with technology mal function issues or for incomplete, incorrect, or plagiarized assignments. You may submit assignments early (prior approval required) through appropriate communication mediums . Early assignments or those submitted outside of class MUST be received by the pr ofessor before the scheduled class time. Assignments/exams will be returned for your review. Assignments/exams physically reviewed during a class period must be returned to the instructor during the same class period. Failure to return any assignment/ - exa m as indicated will result in that assignment/exam being disallowed for grade computation. Student work will be held ONE semester after the end of the course. Please retrieve any of your materials by that deadline. Exams/Final Exam. Exams will generally c onsist of true - false, multiple - choice, short answer, essay, and completion questions as well as application exercises. The final exam will cover second half of class. Administrative Course Requirements: Class Attendance . Enrollment in this course obligat es the student not only for prompt completion of all work assigned but also for punctual and regular attendance and for participation in any class discussion that may occur. Absences do not absolve him/her of this responsibility. It is the student's respon sibility to keep informed concerning all assignments made and information presented in class, but not by contacting the professor for information about what was missed during class or requesting that the professor review s absence. Absence from more than 10 percent of the scheduled class sessions is considered excessive. If you must exceed this 10 percent maximum, withdrawing from the course should be considered. A ll absences are counted; therefore, the professor does not grant excused absences. Credit for class attendance requires that you arrive on time and stay (in class) the entire period. Posting of Grades. No grades will be posted. Keep an accurate record of your progress in this course. Academic Integrity and Student Conduct. Expectations for academic integrity and student conduct are described in detail on the website of the Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Affairs. Please take a look, ( ). of thes e guidelines and to conduct themselves accordingly. Conduct which is considered disruptive as well as equated to a class absence and is a basis for ejection from the class includes (but is not limited to) arriving late for class, leaving early, leaving and returning during the class period, having telephones or pagers which ring or beep in class, and bringing children or other non - enrolled guests to class . MGMT3510 PG 3 Communication Protocol . See the professor during office hours rather than publicly d iscussing any personal situation during class or in the 15 minute interval between classes. Electronic Devices. The professor reserves the right to prohibit the use of electronic devices during class. All electronic devices must be put in silent mode durin g class. ADA Statement. To receive disability related accommodations and services, students must first register with Student Disability Services and provide current and appropriate medical and/or psycho - educational documentation which identifies the speci fic nature and extent of a qualifying disability, including the functional limitations currently imposed by the disability ( ). Prerequisites. To be enrolled in any 30 00 - 4000 level business course students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College must: (1) have completed all required lower division Business Administration courses (ACCT major 2.5) in all required lower division business courses and Math 1312. (3) Have accumulated 55 hours of course work including the required 9 semester hours of English. Non - Business majors must have junior or senior standing and have met specific prerequisites of courses. Students are responsible for ensuring that requirements are met; otherwise, administrative drop actions may be implemented. Note From Faculty Director of Undergraduate Programs. Admission into this class is by permit only. Studen ts who are enrolled in the class (on the last day to add classes) will only be given a permit for the class for the next semester one week before the semester begins. Permits will be granted at this time only if space is still available. BBA Degree Progr am Learning Outcomes The learning outcomes for this degree program are located on the following URL. Notice that Goals indicate Learning Outcomes for the degree program. The objectives under each learning outcome indicate what must be done to reach the learning outcome. Facult y members in the Fogelman College developed these learning outcomes and periodically assess students to determine the level that the learning outcomes are being met. URL: Education and Writing Assistance (Free): Educational Support Program (ESP) - provides academic counseling, contact information is The Business Learning Center: (Room 256, FCBE) - provides tutoring in accounting, statistics, finance, management, and market ing. Writing assistance is also available in Patterson, Room 225 only. Contact number is 901.678.3912. Tutoring: General tutoring ( Writing and online tutoring ( University of Memphis plagiarism p olicy and helpful tutorials: UM Policy on Plagiarism How To Avoid Plagiarism. APA format websites: douts/research/r_apa.html#Your or Study efficiencies/time management - Mitchell Hall, Room 207 MGMT 3510 PG. 4 Tentative Course Schedule : the schedule from class announcements) Fall 2015 August 26 W: Introduction, Chapters 1 - 2, Discuss Intro Assignment (Millington Class meeting) August 31 (M): Intro Assignment due (online)/ Chapters 3 - 4 (Reading/Online work) September 2 (W): Chapters 5, 6/ Good News Letter due (Millington Class meeting) September 7 (M): Bad News Letter Due/ Chapters 7,8 (Reading/Online work)/ Study for Mid - term September 9 (W): Mid Term Exam/ Course Summary Assignment overview September 14 (M): Course Summary Assignment due (online) chapters 9,10 (Reading/Online), Targeted Job opportunity (due on 16 th ) st ) (Millington Class meeting) on 23 rd ) Septemb er 23 (W): Cover Letter due, Chapter 13 , List of References (due on 28 th ), Follow - up/Thank you letter (due on 28 th ) September 28 (M): Chapter 14 (reading/online), Career overview review (due o n 30 th ) MGMT 3510 PG. 5 September 30 (W): Individual Prese ntations/Team Presentations (Millington Class meeting) October 5 (M): Social Media Paper preparation (due on 7 th ) October 7 (W): Final day of Class, Final Examination Millington Class meeting) MGMT 3510 PG 6 Assignment Description Intro Wrtiting Assignment : This assignment is used to help me determine your c urrent level of writing skills. (1) Develop your own professional letterhead (use this letter head for all assignments you turn in) (2) Write 3 to 4 paragraph description of yourself (date & inside address) including your classification, major, career inte rests, your assessment of your communication skills, career goals and any pertinent information (assignments should be typed and proofed). See chapters 6&7 for help on format. Good News/Routine Letter : You will be given a topic in class and or ecourseware and write a one page letter on your letterhead with a minimum of 3 paragraphs. See Chapter 6 for help on format. Bad News Letter: This letter is based on the content in Chapter 7. Read the chapter ca refully before you draft this letter. You will be given a topic in class and or in ecourseware. Utilize same format as in the good news letter (letter head and minimum of 3 paragraphs). Social Media Paper: This paper will include a 3 - 5 page paper on the - 5 appropriate sources (not your text), use APA for in - text citations and include a Reference page. APA should be used for the paper format (1 inch margins all around, 12 point t ype, double spaced, and an appropriate cover page (cover page does not count toward 3 - 5 pg minimum). Sources for this paper should be professional journal articles, search carefully for appropriate articles. See chapters 9, 10 and 11 for this assignment. D o not use Wikipediafor this report. Sources should be relevant and written within the last 5 years. Graphs and or charts should be utilized within the text of the report. Cut and pasted graphs or charts will not be accepted (See chapter on graphs and char ts). Career Plan Assignment : This project includes aspects of all that you will learn in this course: writing skills, research skills and career awareness. Text resources for this project are chapters 4, 8, 13 and 14. The career plan assignment is divided into 4 categories (Career plan I - IV) with each plan being due at different times throughout semester (see syllabus). Career Plan I/Targeted Job Opportunity: another online source. Print out the copy of job as well as the job requirements, skills, experience or any other Career Plan II/Focus 2 Assessments - Career Overview: To assist you in developing your caree r plan, it is good to take some assessments that help to identify your strengths, skills and interests. Go to services and take FOCUS 2 career assessments. Print these out and include the m when you turn in the career plan III assignment. MGMT 3510 PG. 7 Career Plan II I /Resum e & Cover Letter: Using the job posting above, develop a professional resume on resume paper accompanied by a cover letter (written in persuasive form). See chapters 8 & 13 as a reference for each. Microsoft formats will not be accepted. Use the same lette rhead you developed for other writing assignments. See ( ). Career Plan IV/List of References & Thank You Letter: Identify 3 - career search. Using a separate page from letterhead, list your references vertically (see your text for format and style) citing the contacts name, title, organization name, mailing add ress, email and relationship of source to you. On your letterhead, thank your potential employer for allowing you the opportunity visit and interview for the position. Use the same employer you started with in career plan. Individual Presentation: Oral an employers. Business professionals need to be able to communicate well to diverse audiences and various environments. Each student will: (1) Sign up for a topic in class and c hoose a presentation date (2) Prepare a 5 - 7 minute power point presentation - 10 slide minimum (3) appropriate animation, audio visuals and other aides should be utilized (4) An outline of your presentation as well as hard copy of presentation are due on yo ur presentation date (5) Business Professional dress required for presentation (6) Remember to proof all slides and remember slides are there as support not a script to be read. Team Presentation: to achieve results by working with others. Teams will be composed of 3 to 4 members and the number of teams will be dictated by final class enrollment. Each group Gather team members name and contact information (3) Develop a presentation outline (4) A minimum of 12 power point slides (5) Presentation should be 7 - 10 minutes in length with each member presenting (6) Each team should be professionally dressed (7) Outlines and hard copies of presentation will be due on presentation date (8) Team presentations should be practiced and will be graded on practice preparation, creativity, animation, audiovisua ls and other presentation aides studied in the chapters.