#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/pdfs/ready_for_advisor.pdf
Are You Ready for Your Advising Appointment? When you meet with your advisor each semester to discuss to be prepared so that your meeting will go well. If your advisor has given you instructions for preparation, plea se be sure to follow those guidelines. The instructions below should be similar to what your advisor has assigned. o Schedule an appointment well in advance of your registration time. o Be sure to keep the appointment. Not showing up means that you took a s lot that another student could have had. o If you have not taken a math course and plan to do so in the coming semester, you must have an ALEKS math assessment score less than 6 months old . ALEKS is located on the Student tab in myMemphis. ALEKS information : o Read the Undergraduate Catalog sections pertaining to your degree and your major requirements as well as the General Education requirements. o Look over any materials your advisor has given you previously regarding your m ajor and degree, and bring them with you to every appointment. o Check your Worksheet in UMdegree available from the My Degree Tab in myMemphis . This is an unofficial evaluation of the courses you have taken and need to take for your degree. (This evaluation is a work - in - progress, so do not panic if some thing on it is incorrect, but do let your advisor know.) o Using UMdegree for assista nce, create a list of the courses you think you will be ready to take, and enter these in the Planner. You can find instructions for creating a Planner semester here: o Refer to Courses to Consider, another tool on the My Degree tab, to see if the courses you have selected are rated with 4 or 5 stars. This tool lets you know which courses in specific categories you are most likely to be successful in. o Print out a degree sheet from the College of Arts and Sci ences webpages ( ) and keep a record of the courses you have completed, or use the degree sheet your advisor has given you. o Come prep ared with a list o f questions and any concerns that you would like to discuss. o Bring a pen or pencil and a printed copy of your list of courses. o Ask your advisor for alternate courses that you can take in the event some courses are closed or do not fit your schedule. o Inform your advisor of any changes in your plans since the last time you met - for example, if you have decided to add a minor or a second major, or if you are planning to go to graduate school or to professional school after graduation. o Take a list of other conc erns such as problems affecting your academic performance or career considerations. Your advisor can supply you with contact information for resources on campus, for example, tutoring or personal or career counseling. Having a list of concerns will ensur e that you do not forget to discuss them. o Thank your advisor for spending time with you. Your advisor is available to assist you with your college career, but ultimately it is your responsibility to make appropriate academic choices. Being prepared for e ach advising session will ensure that your choices are wise.