#http://www.memphis.edu/presweb/leadership/staff.php
President's Staff - Office of the President - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of the President About Mission and Plan Communications Leadership Contact Leadership Team President's Council Key Administrators Board of Visitors Alumni Association Board of Directors President's Staff Related Offices Home Office of the President University Leadership Team President's Staff President's Staff Stephanie Be asley Director of Strategic Initiatives Phone: 901.678.5021 Fax: 901.678.5065 E-mail: sbeasly1@memphis.edu Office: 341 Administration Building Stephanie works directly with the President in the development and implementation of strategic initiatives that support the University's vision, including the UofM Strategic Plan, Key 50, Enrollment/Retention/Graduation, National Rankings, BOV Effectiveness, Student Experience, Research Growth and Expansion, Campus Efficiency and Development efforts. She works with program and project managers to monitor and track progress, and assists the President's Council and Board of Visitors in framing and advancing key initiatives. Melanie Murry University Counsel Phone: 901.678.2155 Fax: 901.678.3489 E-mail: mmurry@memphis.edu Office: 201 Administration Building Office of Legal Counsel Melanie is responsible for the legal work of the University, which includes a broad array of issues from contracts to employment matters to intellectual property. She is assisted by the employees of the Office of Legal Counsel, which she manages. The mission of the office is to provide timely and competent legal assistance to all areas of the University and to assist the University in accomplishing its mission. Byron Morgan Chief Audit Executive, Internal Audit Phone: 901.678.2125 Fax: 901.678.5409 E-mail: bmorgan3@memphis.edu Office: 271 Administration Building Department of Internal Audit Byron is responsible for directing a comprehensive internal audit activity within the institution. Internal Audit plans and conducts audits to determine the adequacy of the institution's systems of internal control; efficiency and effectiveness of financial, administrative and academic management; and the degree of compliance with institutional, Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR), state and federal policies and laws. The office also conducts special investigations as requested, recommends improvements to controls, provides advice on risk management, operating procedures, accounting records, and systems designs. Lendon Ellis Director of Corporate Relations Phone: 901.678.4096 Fax: 901.678.5065 E-mail: lellis2@memphis.edu Office: 322 Administration Building Lendon is responsible for external partnerships and economic development which includes the KeyPartners Program, a strategic initiative that supports the University's vision to meet the needs of students and the community. She serves as the lead for customized and mutually beneficial corporate relationships with the UofM. Katie Stella Executive and Board Services Phone: 901.678.3914 Fax: 901.678.5065 E-mail: katie.stella@memphis.edu Office: 341 Administration Building Katie is responsible for the day-to-day administrative oversight and executive services for the President's Office interfacing with internal and external contacts while fulfilling presidential initiatives. She serves as the liaison for the University of Memphis Board of Visitors and the University of Memphis Foundation Board of Trustees. LaTondra Arnett Administrative Associate Phone: 901.678.2234 E-mail: larnett@memphis.edu Office: 341 Administration Building Leadership Team President's Council Key Administrators Board of Visitors Alumni Association Board of Directors President's Staff Related Offices Dashboard UofM steps towards success Year of Service Initiative Learn how your service hours can provide scholarships for students! President's Blog News, stories, videos and more Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .