#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mktg/2015FMKTG3010301.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MKTG 3010.3 01 : Principles of Marketing (Honors) Fall Semester, 2015 3 .0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8/18 /2015) Instructor: Gregory W. Boller; Ph.D. Phone1: 901.351.1407 Phone2: 901.678.2667 E - mail: gboller@memphis.edu Office: FCBE 319 Facebook: gboller Twitter: @gboller LinkedIn: in/gboller Office Hours: TR 9:00 11:00, and always by appointment. Course Overview Comprehensive study of structure and functions of marketing system in the firm, economy, and society; analysis of target markets, environments, and managerial aspects of marketing practices; comprehensive overview of key components of product and service marketing including brand positioning, pricing, promoting, distribution and selling. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: Students must have earned a minimum of 45 credit hours and have met specific course you do not meet these prerequisites, you may be administratively dropped f rom the course. The complete statement of prerequisites for this course is contained in the Undergraduate Bulletin or in the on - line catalog at: Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : MKTG 8, by Charles W. Lamb, Jos eph F. Hair, Jr., and Carl McDaniel. Southwestern Publishing, Cengage Learning, Inc. Location of Course Materials : While this is a face - to - face course, all course materials (lectures, discussion topics, news, etc.) are also located on the eCourseware website . Course Objectives : This is a survey course in marketing, which means that we will explore a virtual cornucopia of marketing concepts, language and activities. Through our discussions, debates, readings, projects and exams, I expect us to uncover the key principles of market ing significant aspects of marketing theory and practice that every serious student of business is expected to understand, and understand well. Feel confident in communicating and interacting with marketing professionals by using contemporary marketing vocabulary. Define the concept of customer - perceived value and determine how marketing activities lead to the creation, communication, delivery, and exchange of market offerings that hold value f or customers. Understand the importance of marketing and market - based resources in shaping macro - environment influence marketing strategy design, implementation, and performance. Identify unethical marketing activities and their consequences on others and the environment. Identify the emotional and cognitive processes that underlie consumer decision - making and show how these processes may differ across purchase and consumption contexts due to social, psychological, and product - related factors. Recognize the various approaches that may be applied in segmenting markets and selecting appropriate target markets as well as how marketers apply elements of the marketing mix in shaping distinctive marketplace positions in the minds of customers. Identify and describe the ways in which ongoing technological and social trends are - term brand relationshi ps. Identify and consider various marketing career opportunities as well as recognize the value of marketing thought for their own professional development, irrespective of their chosen discipline/career. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the MBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the EMBA program: Course Methodology This is a n on - ground course, meaning we meet face - to - face for discussions, formal presentations of key learning material, exercises, and performance of key course deliverables. In addition, we also have an online component of this course: the elearn site associated with this course has instructional content, additional readings, videos, and other useful learning materials, as well as discussion boards for us to continue our learning con versations outside of the mere 3 hours per week that we meet face - to - face. Please take full advantage of this online component! In general, you should assist the instructor in creating a positive, emotionally supportive environment for learning by staying engaged in the course a nd actively participating in all in - class and online assignments, pr ojects, discussions and presentations . Student's Expectations: In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: a deeply thought - out, passionately inventive, and fully committed learning experience; same day responses to emails, texts or other inquiries; feedback on all work submitted within 5 - 7 calendar days. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Your overall grade in this course is a function of your performance in the following categories: Midterm Examination 1 20% Midterm Examination 2 20% Cultural Learning Exercise (video) 20% Team Presentation 20% Personal, Professional B rand thru Social Media Project 20% Text Quizzes 20% You will immediately notice that the percentages total to 120 percent. You are required to complete all six graded assignments, examinations and quizzes, however, I will drop your lowest grade c ategory, and count only the highest five grades. Midterm Examinations To help ensure exceptional mind - cohesion of the principles and concepts of marketing, each of you will write two take - home examinations (see the schedule for the exact dates these examinations will be due). Your written answers to the questions posed during these examinations will be essay in format (yes, grammar and spelling will be grading factors). Each midterm examination will cover approximately fifty percent of the marketing principles and concepts in this course. 48 hours before the exam due date, I will post the questions on the elearn site for this course under the Content tab . Take any part or all of the 48 hour period to write your examination answers. Please post your a nswers to your personal dropbox on the elearn site for this course by 11:00pm on the day that they are due. Late submissions will not be accepted. You, of course, may use outside references to assist you in constructing high quality examination answers. Bu t I expect all outside reference material to be appropriately and correctly cited (using APA format). Finally, please work alone this is an individual examination, not a group project. Cultural Learning Exercise Since marketing is a global activity, I have created a supplemental exercise to provide a personalized, international context through which you can engage this course. Each student will select one country that 1) they have never visited before, and 2) would like to visit and/or live in the fut ure. Following that, each student will complete the following (fun) tasks on or before the CLE deadline listed in the course sequence (see below): A) Demonstrate that you have learned and can speak key survival phrases in the predominant native language o f your selected country. Your phrases must n prepare an authentic dish/meal typical of the food eaten in your selected country suitable to serve to family and/or friends. C) Demonstrate that you have a firm grasp on those significant consumer tastes, preferences, habits, customs and/or trends that companies must understand before attempting to market their goods and services in your selected county. How you will demonstrate these tasks is by creating a professional looking (with post - production quality) video that will be loaded onto your YouTube c hannel (see social media project below) for all of us to enjoy. Your video may not videos must include a tutorial of you sharing/teaching the foreign language phrases, clear footage of you preparing the authentic dish, clear footage of consumer reactions to the taste and look of your dish, and interwoven facts about significant consumer tastes, preferences, habits, customs and/or trends in your selected country. Once completed, please post a YouTube link to your CLE video in the elearn discussion thread, November 3 (11:30 pm). Late submissions will not be accepted. Team Presentation This class will be divided into four teams, and each team will be responsible for creating and delivering a 20 minute, exciting, high - impact presentation on one of the following marketing topics: 1) The future of brick - and - mortar bookstores, 2) Food marketing and obesity in the United States , 3) The marketing of a candidate for President of the United States, 4) International knock - offs and the theft of brand identity, 5) The moral status of products as a purchase and consumption criterion, and 6) Sustainable consumption as a new marketing et hic. marketing take - aways for our collective learning. Everyone in the class is required to attend these presentations, whether you are I will ask each team to submit progress reports throughout the semester so that I can better guide the development of your presentation. I am also likely to ask to attend one or more of your presentation rehearsals to give you guidance and feedback pr ior to your final performance date. Each student must attend and present as part of the team in order to receive credit for this project. Social loafing (slacking) will not be viewed favorably. If I hear reports of social loafing, I may use 360 evaluations a function of their measured loafing. Personal, Professional Brand thru Social Media Project To facilitate your personal and professional development, each of you will be required to demonstrate an innovative, assertive use of social media to develop your own personal, professional brand. At a minimum, each of you must create accounts (and a social presence) on LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Instagram. You will need to int egrate and coordinate the information about yourselves into a unified brand identity. The deliverable for this project is a paper (approximately 8 pages) that both analyzes and documents your personal, professional brand. Your analyses should include asse ssments of both strengths and shortcomings of how your brand appears to the public, as well as recommendations for how you intend to further develop your brand in the near future. Your paper should also include a definitive brand positioning statement, and evidence that this positioning is present on your various social media platforms. Please make sure to include relevant screenshots of key elements of your brand across social media in an appendix to your paper. Text Quizzes This course is a survey course of fundamental marketing concepts and language. And even though we will press far more advanced issues during our class discussions, I believe that it is imperative that you thoroughly read and study your assigned text to gai n a working knowledge of important marketing concepts and language. To facilitate this process, you will take a total of 10 short quizzes which cover material contained in your text. These quizzes will be loaded on Elearn for you to complete out - of - class. Final Grading Scheme 90 - 100% = A 80 - 89% = B 70 - 79% = C 60 - 69% = D Below 60% = F Plus/Minus grading will NOT be used in this course. Final Course Grades Final course grades are earned according to the following table: Point Range Assigned Grade 90 - 100 Points A 80 - 89 Points B 70 - 79 Points C 65 - 69 Points D Under 65 Points F Course Topics Schedule of Activities August 25 Introductions, Expectations and LinkedIn August 27 September 1 Professional Presentation Skills Training September 3 Overview of Marketing Read Chapter 1 September 8 - 10 Global Marketing Environment & Strategy Read Chapters 2, 4 and 5 September 15 - 17 Consumer Marketing Read Chapter 6 September 22 Segmentation & Targeting Read Chapter 8 September 24 Marketing Research Read Chapter 9 September 29 October 1 Product & Branding Essentials Read Chapters 10 and 11 October 6 - 8 Ethics & Corporate Social Responsibility Read Chapter 3 October 15 Mid - term Examination 1 Due today! October 20 - 22 Integrated Marketing Communications, Social Media, & Customer Relationship Management Read Chapters 15 and 18 October 27 29 Advertising & Public Relations Read Chapter 16 November 3 Personal Selling & Sales Promotion [Note: All CLEs due today!] Read Chapter 17 November 5 Marketing Channels & Supply Chain Management Read Chapters 13 and 14 November 10 - 12 Retail Marketing, Business - to - Business Marketing & Services Marketing Read Chapters 7 and 12 November 17 Mid - term Examination 2 and Soci al Media Personal Branding Projects due today! November 19 - 24 Presentations December 1 Pricing Read Chapter 20 Other important dates: Aug. 24 First day of class Sept. 7 Labor Day Oct. 10 13 Fall Break Nov. 25 29 Thanksgiving Dec. 2 Last day of classes Final Exam Schedule There is no final exam for this course. Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly responsibility. Attendance: You are mature adults in a n un dergraduate degree program, hence formal attendance will n ot be taken. However, you are expected to stay active and engaged throughout the academic term and keep up wi th the schedule of activities. Your full engagement in the class begins on the first da y of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is submitted. For students receiving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attend ance and potentially impact access to student loans in the fu ture. Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Note that using a is considered cheating. Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Late Assignments: Assignments and projects are expected to be completed and submitted on or before their due date. Assignments and projects submitted past the deadline, without prior permission from the instructor, will receive zero credit. Please ask permissio n if you need extra time in which to complete an assignment! Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance Gregory W. Boller (bio) Greg is an Associate Professor of Marketing, former Director of MBA Programs and former Chairman of the Department of Marketing and Supply Cha in Management. Greg holds BS, MS and PhD degrees in Marketing from Penn State University. In addition to marketing, his training includes psycholinguistics, rhetoric, and poetics. Greg has been at the University of Memphis since 1988, and teaches creati vity & innovation, negotiation, global marketing strategy and philosophy of science. Greg's current research interests center on empathy, business ethics and performance ethnography . His work has been published in The Journal of Consumer Research, The Journal of Advertising, The Journal of Business Research, Journal of Current Issues and Research in Advertising, The Journal of Marketing Management, The Journal of Healthcare Marketing, Advances in Consumer Research a nd the Proceedings of the Pacific Sociological Association . Greg regularly conducts creativity, leadership, negotiation and communications training seminars for companies (e.g., Hilton Worldwide, ALSAC/St. Jude, Baptist Memorial Hospital, FedEx, AutoZone, and Williams Sonoma) and executive development programs. He has served as an advertising consultant to the US Navy. Greg served as political research consultant to ABC News, the Foundation for National Progress, and the National Institute on Media and th e Family. He also served as a lobbying strategy consultant for the National Hardwood Lumber Association and Family Business First. In addition to his academic and consulting responsibilities, Greg is an enthusiastic member of the Memphis theatre community . Greg recently served as a member of the Theatre Memphis Board of Directors, and two terms as a member of the Germantown Community Theatre Board of Directors (was Board President during the 2004 - 2005 season). Currently, Greg is serving as a member of the Theatre Memphis Season Selection Committee , a Board Member with New Moon Theatre, and a Board member with Chatterbox Audio Theatre. As an actor, Greg's favorite roles include C.P. Ellis in Best of Enemies (Circuit Playhouse; 2014); Joe Keller in All My Sons (Germantown Community Theatre; 2015); Richard in Richard III (Theatre Memphis; 2011), Stanley in A Streetcar Named Desire (Theatre Memphis; 2004), The Creature in Frankenstein (New Moon Theatre at Theatre Works, 2013) and Kent in King Lear (New Moon Theatre at Theatre Works; 2012). Greg is currently rehearsing the role of Titus in Titus Andronicus (opening October 23 at Theatre Works ). Greg is an avid (and eternally injured) tennis player, a struggling musician (he plays the guitar, didgeridoo and t he djembe), and a brooding vegetarian cook. Greg is married, and has two daughters.