#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/teaching/courses.php
Courses offered at UM - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Degree Programs in Egyptology Prospective Students Graduate Undergraduate Current M.A. Students Alumni Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Teaching Courses offered at UM Relevant Courses Below is a listing of courses offered at The University of Memphis which are relevant to the Egyptology programs. Courses in the Art History and Ancient History programs are included. This list is derived from the on-line Graduate Bulletin entries for Art History and History. 6000 are entry-level graduate. 7000 are M.A. level. 8000 are Ph.D. level. NOT ALL COURSES ARE OFFERED EVERY SEMESTER. Check course availability each semester. ART HISTORY (ARTH) ARTH 6111. Art and Archaeology of Egypt. (3). Pre-dynastic to Late Period. ARTH 6112. Egyptian Art and Archaeology in the Old and Middle Kingdoms. (3). Art, architecture, and archaeology, 3000-1500 BC. ARTH 6113. Egyptian Art and Archaeology in the New Kingdom and Late Period. (3). Art, architecture, and archaeology, 1500 BC. to 642 AD. ARTH 6121. Ancient Art of the Near East. (3). Architecture, sculpture, painting, and the minor arts in Mesopotamia, Anatolia, and Syria-Palestine. ARTH 6123. Greek Art. (3). Architecture, sculpture, and painting from the Bronze Age to the end of the Hellenistic period. ARTH 6124. Roman Art. (3). Architecture, sculpture, and painting from Etruscan Rome to the fall of the Empire. ARTH 6125. Art and Archaeology of Pompeii. (3). Pompeii's excavations, art, artifacts, and architecture in reconstructing ancient Roman daily life. ARTH 6129. Studies in Ancient and Medieval Architecture. (3). Selected topics comparing the architecture of ancient Egypt, the Classical world, and Medieval Europe. ARTH 7110. Advanced Individual Study in Art History. (3). Historical periods of art history with emphasis on individual research. May be repeated for credit when topic varies. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ARTH 7115. Middle Egyptian I. (3). Grammar and translation of hieroglyphs. ARTH 7116. Middle Egyptian II. (3). Readings in hieroglyphs. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 7115 or equivalent. ARTH 7117. Middle Egyptian Literature. (3). Readings and translations of major literature of Ancient Egypt. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 7116 or equivalent. ARTH 7118. Middle Egyptian Historical Texts. (3). Readings and translations of ancient Egyptian works of history. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 7116 or equivalent. ARTH 7119. Late Egyptian. (3). Readings in literature and other texts. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 7116 or equivalent. ARTH 7121. Graduate Problems in Ancient Art. (3). Selected areas or specific problems in Egyptian, Near Eastern, Greek, or Roman Art. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. ARTH 7125. Egyptian Art and Archaeology. (3). Topics and problems in Egyptian art and archaeology. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. ARTH 7130. Art History Methods and Practice. (3). History of the discipline along with current research methods. Students develop research presentations in oral and written formats. ARTH 7996 Thesis. (1-6). Preparation and defense of a thesis prepared under direction of major professor. Studio Art thesis requires an exhibition. (Grade of S, U, or IP is given.) ARTH 7110. Advanced Individual Study in Art History. (3). Historical periods of art history with emphasis on individual research. May be repeated for credit when topic varies. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ARTH 7660. Directed Individual Study. (1-12). Individual investigation of special research problems or projects. May be repeated upon recommendation of advisor. HISTORY (HIST) HIST 6273. Islamic Egypt. (3). Political, economic, social, and cultural development of Egypt from Islamic conquest (640 A.D.) to the present. HIST 6320. Ancient Near East. (3). From the beginnings in Mesopotamia down through the early empires (Assyria, Babylon, Persia). HIST 6323. Egypt of the Pharaohs. (3). A historical survey of ancient Egyptian civilization, covering major political and social developments and topics such as religion, writing, and literature, Egypt's relations with the rest of Africa, and sample problems that illustrate how Egyptologists approach the past. HIST 7070/8070. Research Seminar. (1-3). Emphasis on original research and writing in topics drawn from the fields generally covered by the Studies courses. May be repeated for credit when topic varies. PREREQUISITE: One 7000-level historiography course in any field. HIST 7310/8310. Ancient Historiography. (3). Examines scholarship of ancient history and controversial problems in the field with a view to developing a more sound historical methodology for reconstructing ancient history; usually focuses on Egypt, but may address another area of ancient history. May be repeated when focus area changes. HIST 7320/8320. Studies in Ancient History. (3). HIST 7991/8991. Independent Readings. (1-12). Arranged on an individual basis for history students only. May be repeated. NOTE: History majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. HIST 7996. Thesis. (1-6). The student must write and defend satisfactorily a thesis on a subject approved by the major professor. HIST 9000. Doctoral Dissertation. (1-12). No more than 12 hours may count toward the degree. PREREQUISITE: Admission to candidacy. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. The Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures offers undergraduate courses in beginning and intermediate modern standard Arabic. ARABIC (ARAB ) ARAB 1010. Elementary Arabic I. (3). (1101). Principles of pronunciation; everyday expressions; basic sentence patterns through oral practice, writing and reading. (f) ARAB 1020. Elementary Arabic II. (3). (1102). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: ARAB 1010 or equivalent. (s) ARAB 2010. Intermediate Arabic I. (3). (2201). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: ARAB 1020 or equivalent. (f) ARAB 2020. Intermediate Arabic II. (3). (2202). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: ARAB 2010 or equivalent. (s) Degree Programs in Egyptology Prospective Students Graduate Undergraduate Current M.A. Students Alumni Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .