#http://www.memphis.edu/law/faculty-staff/janet-goode.php
Janet Goode - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Home School of Law Faculty Janet Goode Janet Goode Visiting Assistant Professor of Law; Director, Memphis CHiLd Medical Legal Partnership Phone (901) 678-4589 Email jgoode1@memphis.edu Fax Office Law School, Legal Clinic Offices Office Hours CV About Professor Goode Janet Goode is a Visiting Assistant Professor of Law and director of the Medical-Legal Partnership Clinic, part of the Memphis Children's Health Law Directive (Memphis CHiLD). Memphis CHiLD is an innovative alliance between the Law School, Le Bonheur Children's Hospital, and Memphis Area Legal Services that provides legal services to low-income pediatric patients and their families. Most recently Professor Goode served as the first Executive Director of Christian Legal Aid of Pittsburgh (CLA), a large pro bono community clinic, where she significantly shaped CLA's direction and clinic structure, represented clients, and managed a network of volunteer attorneys and law students. Professor Goode was the recipient of the 2013 Lorraine M. Bittner Public Interest Attorney Award and the 2014 Pennsylvania Bar Association Civil Legal Aid Attorney Award for her work with CLA. Following law school, Professor Goode clerked for the Hon. Keith P. Ellison in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas. She then served as an Assistant District Attorney at the New York County District Attorney's Office where she handled a large caseload of both misdemeanor and felony offenses and was a member of the Domestic Violence Unit. She has also worked as an associate at Kirkpatrick &amp; Lockhart Preston Gates Ellis LLP (now K&amp;L Gates). In addition to her legal career, Professor Goode has served on the executive committee of the board of a community health center dedicated to providing quality, whole person, affordable heath care and was on the governing board of her church. Education Stanford Law School, 2002; B.A., New York University, History with Honors, Minor in French (magna cum laude), 1997. Admitted Tennessee, Pennsylvania, New York. Experience The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, Memphis Tennessee; Visiting Assistant Professor &amp; Director, Medical-Legal Partnership Clinic, 2015 - present Christian Legal Aid of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Executive Director, 2008 - 2014 Kirkpatrick &amp; Lockhart Preston Gates Ellis LLP, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Associate Attorney, 2006 - 2008 New York County District Attorney's Office, New York, New York; Assistant District Attorney, 2003 - 2006 Law Clerk, 2002 - 2003, The Honorable Keith P. Ellison, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Laredo Division Publications N/A Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .