#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3510M52.pdf
!"!!!MGMT 3 510-M51 /M52 – Business Communication Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Updated: 8/18/2015 Instructor: Laura Alderson Phone /Text : 901.730.6637 E-mail: laura.alderson@memphis.edu (eCourseware email will not be used) Office: 238 FCBE Office Hours: by appointment laura_alderson Course Management: ! Course Overview To develop an understanding of the theory (principles) of effective communication and the ability to apply these principles to the solving of management problems, especially in the form of written business messages. Although the emphasis is not on grammar, spelling, etc., all work is expected to be correct in these areas. Course Description: Communication theory applied to business and the professions; emphasis on effective writing; presentation of written and oral case solutions, letters, memoranda, reports, and employment applications; selection and use of research sources; consideration of business ethics, technology, and intercultural communication. COURSE PREREQUISITE: MIS 2749, or equivalent. [W] NOTE:THIS IS A WRITING & ASSIGNMENT INTENSIVE COURSE. Required Textbook Bundle Lehman, C. & Dufrene, D. (2015). BCOM7 (7th ed.) with CourseMate access card. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage. ISBN13: 9781305401938 New textbook purchase is required in order to obtain the required CourseMate Access Code and use of CourseKey. CourseKey: CM-9781305403185-0000048 **CourseMate use is required for this course !#!Recommended Books Clark, J. and Clark, L. (2013). A handbook for office professionals: How 13. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage. Sabin, W. (2010). The Gregg reference manual: A manual of style, grammar, usage, and formatting tribute edition (11th edition). New York, NY: McGraw Hill Publishers. Strunk, W. and White, E.B. The elements of style (Any edition). New York, NY: Macmillan Publishing Company, Inc. VandenBos, G. (Ed.) (2010). Publication manual of the American psychological association (6th ed.). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. Yate, M. (2013). Knock ‘em dead: The ultimate job seekers guide. Adams Media Corporation. Location of Course Materials eCourseware: All course content files and tests can be found in eCourseware by logging into this course at !!CourseMate : 10 of 14 chapter 1) graded quizzes and 2) language review quizzes are assignment requirements for this course. Learning Objectives Upon completion of this course, students are expected to be able to: 1. Understand and discuss the communication process; 2. Plan, organize, evaluate, and develop a variety of business messages that display appropriate tones and demonstrate the use of correct appearance of business documents*; 3. Discuss and use listening, oral, and nonverbal communication skills; 4. Prepare and persuasively deliver an effective oral presentation using visual slides*; 5. Gather, organize, synthesize, and evaluate data to write business reports in a persuasive manner*; 6. Prepare employment communication messages, including a letter of application and resume; 7. Understand and discuss effective team, interpersonal, and intercultural communication; 8. Use critical thinking, apply ethical approaches to solving business communication problems, and exhibit desirable work traits (business etiquette; professional image), which promote success in business*. *AACSB compliant Academic Course Requirement The following minimum assignments for this course include: 1. CourseMate graded chapter quizzes and language review (10 of 14) 2. Punctuation, Grammar, Sentence Structure assignment; 3. Informational/routine/ or unfavorable message; 4. Persuasive message; 5. Employment communication assignment: letter of application (cover letter), resume, job description; 6. Individual oral presentation using appropriate technology and software; !$!7. Research activity demonstrating use of gathering, organizing, evaluating, and synthesizing information into report format using APA style documentation; 8. Business etiquette, professional image development, and team communication activities Prerequisites Students must have earned a minimum of 45 credit hours and have met specific course prerequisites with a minimum grade of “C” to be eligible for all 3000 and 4000 level courses. In addition to the requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have 1) completed all required lower division business courses with a minimum grade of “C” in each; 2) minimum of 2.25 GPA (2.5 for accounting majors) in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1830 or 1910; and 3) 45 hours of course work including MATH 1830 or 1910, COMM 2381, and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements-General Requirements). Non-Business majors must have junior or senior standing and have met specific prerequisites of courses. Students are responsible for ensuring that requirements are met; otherwise, administrative drop actions may be implemented. Fogelman College: BBA Degree Learning Outcomes The Fogelman College of Business & Economics is accredited by AACSB (The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business). As such, we are required to adhere to stated learning outcomes for our students. Learning outcomes for the BBA degree are reinforced in this class where relevant, and can be found at this link: Course Methodology This is an online course and much of the learning will be self-managed and self-paced. Everything will be done fully online and asynchronously. Mastery of assigned material will be determined primarily by student’s timely performance on required assignments including; discussion board responses, online audio presentation, research paper, grammar/punctuation/sentence structure exercise, business messages, employment package, CourseMate quizzes, and online chapter tests. Professor’s Expectations In general, students should assist the instructor in creating a positive, supportive environment for learning by staying engaged in the course and actively participating in all online or face-to-face discussions. Student responsibilities include: • Logging into eCourseware at least three times a week for participation activities and obtaining course NEWS weekly updates; • Keeping up with deadlines through the course schedule in syllabus and eCourseware; • Carefully reading syllabus, assignment, and course content before asking instructor for clarification; • Promptly communicating with instructor for clarification on any course or personal matters; • Utilizing university-provided email account for communication in this course rather than eCourseware email; !%!• Carefully proofreading all assignments, ensuring proper grammar, sentence structure, and accurate punctuation. If necessary, students should utilize free tutoring and writing help available through the University and completed well in advance of assignment due dates; • Treating all members of the course professionally with kindness and respect; • Adhering to the University’s Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities found in studentconduct/studenthandbook.htm and the Fogelman College of Business & Economics Standards for Academic Integrity . Cheating/Unethical acts/plagiarism/dishonest behavior of any form will NOT be tolerated by the Instructor. Student s’ Expectations In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well-organized and engaging learning experience, response to emails or texts within the day unless otherwise notified, and timely feedback on all work submitted prior to the next due assignment. Additionally, it is my nature to treat all members of the course equally and with respect. Guidelines For Communication Instructor Contact: Please use laura.alderson@memphis.edu email as the primary means for contacting the Instructor. Texts are also welcome using 901.730.6637. If you wish to speak to the Instructor, please first email or text to set up a meeting either by phone, Skype, or face-to-face. Face-to-face meetings are during office hours in FCBE 238 during the fall and spring semesters. The Instructor will make every attempt to respond to email or text inquiries within 24 hours during the work-week. Students will be notified when the Instructor is not available to meet the stated response time through class meeting, email, and in eCourseware news postings. !Email Guidelines "!Always include a subject line with specific concise topic and “3510—& section number” • Remember without facial expressions some comments may be taken the wrong way thus, be careful of your words and tone • Use standard fonts • Do not send large attachments without permission • Special formatting such as centering, audio messages, tables, html, etc. should be avoided • Use proper and correct grammar, spelling, and sentence format • Provide your full name in the close of the message! • Students must use the UM email account !Discussion Groups Guidelines "!Review the discussion threads thoroughly before entering the discussion • Try to maintain threads by using the “Reply” button rather than starting a new topic •Be respectful of others by not making insulting or inflammatory statements •Be cooperative with group leaders in completing assigned tasks •Be positive, thoughtful, original, and constructive in-group discussions !&!•Respond to discussion assignments in a timely manner !Techn ology and Software Requirements • The minimum hardware requirements for eCourseware compatibility can be found at • Students MUST have access to high speed Internet that is readily available. • The software requirements are Microsoft Office Word, Adobe Acrobat Reader, and Microsoft PowerPoint. No other word processing software will be accepted. If you don’t have MS Word, then you can use free software from Microsoft’s OneDrive or save your documents as a rich text file (rtf). • Students are strongly encouraged to backup their electronic files with the use an 8MB or larger USB Flash Drive and a cloud storage website, such as UMDrive, Dropbox, or Google Drive. Technical Support For technical difficulties with eCourseware , first use the UMhelpdesk by filling out a form at: or calling 901.678.8888. Technical support and ticket submission for CourseMate ™: Student video guides for using CourseMate ™ are located at Grading and Evaluation Criteria The final grade is determined by the number of points earned on 1) all required assignments, 2) tests, and 3) optional bonus activities. The total points earned will be divided by the total points possible for a final percentage. Grades will be posted in eCourseware and a final grade posted in MyMemphis portal. NOTE: There is no guarantee that the Instructor will round-up total points at the end of the semester. For example, if a student has an 89.99 average, then the course grade will be a “B.” Students will be evaluated on the following: 90-100% of total points A 80-89% of total points B 70-79% of total points 60-69% of total points C D Below 60% of total points F !'!Assessed Activities !Points earned on the assessed activities will be distributed as follows: Course Activities Percentage Total Points Tests (4 @ 30 points each) 24% 120 Optional Final to replace lowest Test (30) Assignments 76% 380 Total Course Points 100% 500 Schedule of Activities Course assignments, activities, tests, and due dates are listed in the syllabus/course schedule location of the “Getting Started” module within eCourseware. Final Exam Schedule The final exam is to be taken within eCourseware in the “Quizzes” location. Please note that the final exam for this course is optional and if taken, will replace the lowest test grade, if the final exam grade is higher. Please see course schedule located in the “Getting Started” module within eCourseware for date window in which it should be taken. Course Policies Attendance Students should login to the eCourseware system at least every other day. Attendance and participation in weekly course activities is necessary for course success! Assignments, discussion postings, quizzes, projects, possible team activities are a part of the normal course week therefore, students MUST spend time in eCourseware participating in these activities. !Course Absence !No Provision is made for making up assignments or tests except for University-approved reasons (University-sponsored trips, athletic events, or conferences) or for exceptional reasons approved by the Instructor. Those students who have extracurricular arrangements that will conflict with the course MUST make arrangements with the Instructor in advance before due dates of assignments and quizzes. Official documentation is required as proof. Note that the course is set up to allow for early submissions of assignments and completing tests within an open timeline window. Additionally, personal or work commitment conflicts are not excused absences. Please contact your Instructor immediately should you have unexpected situations arise. Attendance reporting will be submitted to the University after the first two weeks of class during fall and spring semesters and within one week during summer semesters. !(!Reporting Illness or Absence Students must immediately notify the instructor by email when needing to report an absence due to illness or in the case of another unexpected absence. Proper medical documentation will be required in cases of illness-related absences. Other documentation will be expected in other non-medical related absences. Inclement Weather !Due dates for assignment and test may be adjusted when inclement weather persists. An announcement will be made by email and posted within eCourseware news area. Adding/Dropping Please see the registrar’s website for policies and dates for adding or dropping a class! Academic Integrity Students are expected to recognize and uphold standards of intellectual and academic integrity as set forth in the University of Memphis Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities. See: Academic dishonesty of any sort will not be tolerated . Your Instructor will adhere to the University policies related to academic dishonesty. Dishonest acts related to academic work, include but are not limited to; using another student’s work as your own, plagiarizing, obtaining aid on quizzes, taking quizzes for others, having another person take your quizzes, having unauthorized knowledge of quiz content, doing work for another student, falsification, and multiple!submissions. If plagiarism occurs, the student, at minimum, may be subject to failure of the assignment and/or course. Further action could be taken, up to and including expulsion from the University. Plagiarism is the “intentional use of someone else’s exact words without quotation marks and appropriate credit or the use of someone else’s unique ideas without acknowledgment,” (Alred, G. et al. (2011). Handbook of Technical Writing. New York, NY: St. Martin’s Press.) See How to avoid plagiarism: Turnitin Statement: !“Your written work may be submitted to http:/ , or a similar electronic detection method, for an evaluation of the originality of your ideas and proper use and attribution of sources. As part of this process, you WILL be required to submit your research work electronically and be given other instructions to follow. By taking this course, you agree that all assignments may undergo this review process and that the assignment may be included as a source document in Turnitin.com's restricted access database solely for the purpose of detecting plagiarism in such documents. Any assignment not submitted according to the procedures given by the Instructor may be penalized or may not be accepted at all.” (University of Memphis, Office of Legal Counsel, October 17, 2005) !)!Late Assignments /Tests Only one late assignment is accepted for this course. All other assignments if late, will be given a 10% reduction penalty for each day late, and a “0” on the seventh day late. No provision is available for taking tests after the due dates. If a student must miss a test on the scheduled date, students MUST let the instructor know well in advance and must provide a valid reason for the absence (e.g., school sanctioned event, documented illness or hospitalization). Other reasons for absences will be evaluated on a case –by- case basis. Syllabus Changes The Instructor reserves the right to adjust the course schedule and due dates when necessary and will announce any changes ahead of time through eCourseware News section, by email, and/or announced in class. Student Services !!Please access the!FCBE Student Services page for information about:!• Students with Disabilities • Tutoring and other Academic Assistance • Advising Services for Fogelman Students • Technical Assistance !*!Resources, Education and Writing Assistance APA format websites or Career Servic es Educational Support Program (ESP) provides academic counseling, contact information is Professio nal Development Center Programs The Business Learning Center Room 256, FCBE, provides tutoring in accounting, statistics, finance, management, and marketing. Writing assistance Available in Patterson, Room 225 only. Contact number is 901.678.3912. Tutoring General tutoring ( Writing and online tutoring ( University of Memphis plagiari sm policy and helpful tutorials UM Policy on Plagiarism How To Avoid Plagiarism Study efficiencies/time management Mitchell Hall, Room 207