#http://www.memphis.edu/law/programs/advocacy-certificate.php
Advocacy Certificate - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Home School of Law Programs Advocacy Certificate CERTIFICATE IN ADVOCACY The goal of the Certificate in Advocacy program is to enable students who are interested in a career in litigation or the study of advocacy to follow a specialized course of study, to work closely with other students interested in the area and to receive guidance from faculty members with an interest and expertise in the area. This program will enable you to work alongside other students and professors to prepare you for a career in litigation. A student who receives the Certificate in Advocacy demonstrates knowledge of fundamental principles of trial and appellate advocacy, as well as competence in the skills essential to a career in litigation. In turn, Certificate in Advocacy graduates are attractive to law firms seeking to hire litigation attorneys who enter the practice of law with practical training. For more information about the Certificate in Advocacy program, please contact Prof. Barbara Kritchevsky at bkrtchvs@memphis.edu or (901) 678-3239. Curriculum Students in the Certificate in Advocacy Program not only take courses that teach legal rules and principles in a traditional classroom setting but also put those ideas into practice through client representation, skills courses and participation in Moot Court, Mock Trial and Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) travel teams. The out of class component enables students to work with practicing attorneys and make contacts in the legal community. Course Requirements A student must successfully complete at least 15 hours of advocacy courses. At least 2 hours of study must be in trial advocacy courses and 2 hours must be in appellate advocacy courses Non-class Requirements Students seeking the certificate must also complete work outside the classroom, allowing them to gain invaluable experience and see advocacy in action. A student must complete 25 hours of non class work in the advocacy field. The student must complete at least 5 hours each semester. Students in the program must keep a log of their activities in accordance with the Director of Advocacy's guidelines and must attend one meeting each semester with other students enrolled in the Certificate of Advocacy program. Grade Point Requirement To satisfy the requirements of the Certificate in Advocacy, each student must demonstrate a successful understanding of the fundamentals of advocacy by receiving a grade of at least a C and obtaining an overall GPA of at least 2.5 in the building-block courses of Legal Methods I and II, Civil Procedure I and II, Evidence and Professional Responsibility. Students must receive at least a 3.0 GPA in all courses taken to satisfy the certificate. To receive the certificate with honors, a student must complete the graded courses to satisfy the certificate with a GPA of 3.5 or higher and receive a grade of Excellent in at least two-thirds of the non-graded coursework taken to satisfy the certificate requirements. How to Enroll Students in good academic standing may enroll in the Certificate for Advocacy program after completing one year of full-time law study (or 30 hours for part-time students). A student may not enroll after the add deadline in the student's fourth semester of full-time study (or the semester after a part-time student has completed 45 hours of study). A student enrolls by submitting a completed enrollment form to the Director of Advocacy. In completing the form, the student must certify that he/she can satisfy the requirements of the certificate program and is committed to fulfilling its requirements. A student will be dropped from the program if he/she fails to meet the requirements. Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .