#http://www.memphis.edu/cris/aquatics/
Aquatics Facilities and Programs - CRIS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Campus Recreation Intramural Services About Membership Classes/Programs Aquatics Intramurals/Club Sports Facilities Aquatics Facilities and Programs Swim Lessons/Classes Early Bird Swim Program Pool Rules Home CRIS Aquatics Make a big splash. Pool Hours Monday-Friday: 5:30 - 8 a.m., 1-7 p.m. Saturday: 12-5 p.m. Sunday: 1-5 p.m. News Recreational Swimming is now being held in the Indoor Pool. Make your next workout in the pool. Welcome to the CRIS Aquatics department, where safety and security are top priorities. Water sports and recreation offer the fun factor in fitness, but it is very important that all our visitors follow proper aquatics safety rules for the good of everyone. If the aquatics area is open, our lifeguards are on duty (at least three at all times). Progressive security measures are in place, creating a comfortable and safe environment for all U of M faculty, staff, students, alumni, and community members. Come meet our friendly staff and let them tell you more about the low-impact, total body, invigorating workout that swimming provides. Facilities One 50 Meter Heated Indoor Pool (82.5 degrees) One 50 Meter Outdoor Pool: 6.5' center, 4' deep on ends One Dive Well (17' deep) 12 person Whirlpool, Sauna, and Steam Rooms One Heated Indoor Leisure Pool Pool hours are subject to change depending on facility hours, University holidays, or inclement weather. Water Aerobics Water Aerobics classes are offered throughout the year in our Leisure Pool. You do not have to be a Recreation Center member to enroll in these classes. Six-week sessions cost $69. You may pay for the sessions at the front desk or click here to print the class registration form. Please bring completed form and payment one week before the starting date of each session. Lifeguard Jobs No Lifeguard positions currently available. Check back soon for openings! PREREQUISITES FOR EMPLOYMENT: 1. Must hold the following CURRENT certifications: Lifeguard TrainingEmergency First AidCPR for the Professional Rescuer 2. Must have a POSITIVE and HELPFUL ATTITUDE!! LIFEGUARD DUTIES: Supervision of the pool facilities Clearing and securing the pool at closing Curtailing any misuse of the facility or inappropriate actions Checking for proper identification Check that safety equipment is in correct place, and is in good working order Inspection of the pool and equipment. Secure off any discrepancies and make a written report Enforce special participant rules (lap swim/recreation swim) Please use phone for emergencies only Accident care and reporting Covering shifts Checking equipment and supplies before every shift Clearing and securing pool at closing Checking for proper identification Maintain a helpful and pleasant relationship with regular patrons Keep a positive and friendly attitude when dealing with ALL patrons OTHER IMPORTANT ITEMS: All lifeguards MUST be on time (at his/her lifeguard station 15 minutes prior to opening the pool). Proper attire must be worn at all times (lifeguard swimsuit and whistle). In the interest of training - ALL guards must swim a minimum of 500 yards per week. Applications are available here . Please print, fill out and return to Student Recreation and Fitness Center. Contact our Aquatics Office at 901.678.3461 for more information. Aquatics Facilities and Programs Swim Lessons/Classes Early Bird Swim Program Pool Rules Updates on New Student Recreation Center Keep up with news on our New Student Recreation Center Apply for a Job Explore job opportunities at the Recreation Center Join an Intramurals/Club Sports Team Participate in competitive play in selected sport events! Sign up for a Fitness Program Interested in staying in shape? Checkout our fitness programs. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .