#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3510M53.pdf
Course Syllabus MGMT 3510 - M5 3 Business Communication Fall Semester , 2015 3.0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8/19 /15 /2015) Instructor: Martha Robinson, Ed.D, MBA Phone1: 731.425.7961 Phone2: 901.678.5211 E - mail 1: mdrbnson@memphis.edu E - mail2: mdrbnson@elearnmail.memphis.edu Office: 731.425.7961 , LinkedIn: Martha D. Robinson (s earch) Office Hours: As this is a fully online class, the standard means for communicating with the instructor is via course email throughout the semester. However, phone calls can be scheduled on Tuesdays, Thurs days, and from 10:00 12 :30 PM (Central Ti me). Additional appoints are available by appointment. Coordinator, Business Communication: Dr. Barbara D. Davis, Room 328 Fogelman, 678 - 3932, bddavis@memphis.edu Textbook information: Lehman , C. M., and DuFrene, D. D. (2015). B COM 7 (Seventh Edition ). Mason, OH: South - Western Cengage Learning. ISBN: 13: 9781305401938. Course Key: CM - 9781305403185 - 0000059 NOTE: A NEW copy of the text book must be purchased to line materials. R egister the ACCESS code included in the book then input your COURSEKEY ( see above ) provided by your instructor for this section of the course. Used books will require that you purchase a separate ACCESS code, which costs as much as a ne w book. Course Description : Communication theory applied to busines s and the professions; emphasis on effective writing; presentation of written and oral case solution s, letters, memoranda, reports, and employment applications; selection and use of resear ch sources; consideration of business ethics, technology, and intercultural communication. COURSE PREREQUISITE: MIS 2749, or equivalent. [W] NOTE: THIS IS A WRITING INTENSIVE COURSE! Course Goals and Objectives : To develop an understanding of the theor y (principles) of effective communication and the ability to apply these principles to the solving of management problems, especially in the form of written business messages. Although the emphasis i s not on grammar, spelling, etc., all work is expecte d to be correct in these areas. Objectives . Upon completion of this course, the student is expected to be able to: 1. Understand and d iscuss the communication process ; 2. Plan, organize, and write a variety of business messag es that display appropriat e tones and d emonstrate the use of correct appearance in business documents; 3 . Discuss and use listening, oral , and nonverbal communication skills; 4 . Prepare and deliver an effective oral presentation using Microsoft PowerPoint ; 5 . Gather, organize , and evaluate data to write business reports; 6 . Prepare employment communication messages , including a letter of application and resume; 7. Understand and discuss effective team, interpersonal, and intercultural communication 8 . Use critical thinking , ap ply ethical approaches to solving business communication problems , and exhibit desirable work traits (business etiquette) , which promote success in business. BBA Degree Program Learning Outcomes The learning outcomes for this degree pro gram are located on the following URL. Notice that Goals indicate Learning Outcomes for the degree program. The objectives under each learning outcome indicate what must be done to reach the learning outcome. Faculty members in the Fogelman College deve loped these learning outcomes and periodically assess students to determine the level that the learning outcomes are being met. URL: earningOutcomes/BBADegreeLearningOutcomes.pdf Academic Course Requirements : Final Course Grades Final course grades are earned according to the following table: Point Range Assigned Grade 92 - 100 Points A 84 - 91 Points B 75 - 83 Points C 65 - 74 Points D Under 65 Points F Your overall grade for the semester is based on how well you perform on a mixture of formal activities including discussions, quizzes and projects. A detailed description of each of the assessed activities can be found after the scoring summary table below. Summary of Graded Activities Points earned on the assessed activities will be distributed as follows: Deliverable Total Points Discussion Topics (2 @ 30 pts each) 120 Team Case Assignment 1 100 Team Case Assignments 2 100 Homework Written Assignments (4 @ 10 pts each) 4 0 Team Crisis Communication Case Assig nment 100 Written Assignments (5 at 20 pts each) 100 Final Research Project 100 Total 660 pts The following top ics and minimum assignments must be included in all sections of MGMT 3510: a. Textbook online graded quizzes, language reviews, and/or selected assignments b. Information al/routine message c. Unpleasant/bad news message d. Persuasive message ( letter of application can substitute for this message ) e. Employment communication (letter of application and resume minimum requirements) f. Student individual oral presentations (formal and in formal) g. Research activity which demonstrates use of gathering, organizing, evaluating, and synthesizing information into report format u s ing graphics as well as APA style documentation h. Business etiquette (See Etiquette under Resources) and team communicati on activity Administrative Course Requirements: P rerequisites : Students must have earned a minimum of 45 credit hours and have met specific all 3000 and 4000 level courses. In addition to these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower division business courses with a nimum of 2.25 GPA (2.5 for accounting majors) in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1830 or 1910, and (3) 45 hours of course work including MATH 1830 or 1910, COMM 2381 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements - General Requi rements). Non - Business majors must have junior or senior standing and have met specific prerequisites of courses. Students are responsible for ensuring that requirements are met; otherwise, administrative drop actions may be implemented. C lass A ttendance : Since this is an online class taught asynchronously, there are no scheduled meeting times. Thus, formal attendance will not be taken. However, you are expected to stay active and enga ged throughout the academic term and keep up with the schedule of activities. Your full engagement in the class begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is submitted. For students receiving federal studen t loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attendance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. A cademic I ntegrity : The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on considered c Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questio ns about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . - misconduct/index.php - misconduct/resources.php S tudent C onduct : All participants in the course should be considerate of the other course participants and treat them (as well as their opinions) with respect. The class will operate under the assumption that any and all feedback offered is posi tive in nature and that the intentions of the person(s) providing feedback are strictly honorable. Insensitivity in this area will not be tolerated. If you have any questions about online communication, you should review the Fogelman College's Netiquette website . P osting of G rades : Grades will be posted in elearn ADA Statement. To receive disability related accommodations and services, students must fi rst register with Disability Resources for Students (DRS), 110 Wilder Tower, 678 - 2880. DRS coordinates accommodations for students with documented disabilities ( ) . Res ources, Education and Writing Assistance (FREE) : APA format websites : or Alphanumeric Outline Example: urdue.edu/media/pdf/20081113013048_544.pdf Career Corner: Career Services: Educational Support Program (ESP) - provides academic counseling, contact information is P rofessional Development Center Programs: The Business Learning Center : ( R oom 256 , FCBE ) - provides tutoring in accounting, statistics, finance, management, and m arketing. Writing assistance is also available in Patterson, Room 225 only. Contact number is 901.678.3912. The Center for Writing and Communication: , First Floor Ned R. McWherter Library Tutoring: General tutoring ( ) Writing and online tutoring ( ) University of Memphis /Fogelma n College plagiarism policy and helpful tutorial s : Plagiarism u/fcbe/pdfs/students/fcbe_plagiarism_library.pdf .memphis.edu/history/misconduct_plagiarism.htm Study efficiencies/time management - Mitchell Hall, Room 207 Etiquette: MGMT 3510 Students are given priority for enrollment in Business Etiquette Dining Sessions. Session (2 hours) includes recepti and pocket card for $10 registration. Sessions are held Fall and Spring semesters at the Fogelman Executive Center (Main Campus), 330 Innovation Drive. Register through the Professional Devel opment Center: NOTE: This schedule is tentative. The instructor reserves the right to make changes. All schedule changes will be announced in class. Absence from class does not absolve the student from being responsible for obtaining this information.