#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/cas/pols.php
Political Science - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions Political Science Political Science (POLS) POLITICAL SCIENCE Matthias Kaelberer, Ph.D., Chair Room 437, Clement Hall In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: POLS 3700-09. Special Topics in Contemporary Politics. (3). Topics of contemporary significance in politics. POLS 4710-19. Special Topics in Political Science. (1-3). Intensive study of selected topics in political science. POLS 1030 - American Government (3) (1100). Development, structure, and processes of American system of government, including framing principles of U.S. Constitution and Bill of Rights; structure and roles of President, Congress, and Supreme Court, and citizen participation in governing. [G] POLS 1101 - Intro Ancient Political Thgt (3) Inquiry into fundamental questions of ancient political thought, such as: Who should rule? What is justice? What is a good political order? What are the duties of citizens? What is the foundation of morality? [G] POLS 1102 - Intro Modern Political Thought (3) Inquiry into fundamental questions of modern political thought, such as origin of political society, proper rights of citizens, legitimate purposes of government, meaning of justice and good society. [G] POLS 1301 - Intro to Comparative Politics (3) (2301). Comparison of institutions, issues, processes and policies in a variety of political systems ranging from European to Asian or African countries. [G] POLS 1501 - International Relations (3) (2501). Consideration of all major forms of political interaction (conflict competition, and cooperation) between and among global actors in world arena. [G] POLS 3102 - Religion and Politics (3) Survey of role of religion and religious belief in politics; emphasizes role of religious institutions in international arena and national politics and effects of religion on behavior and political beliefs. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or 1101, or 1102, or permission of instructor. POLS 3211 - State/Local Government (3) Role of state governments in Federal System, political institutions, elections; organization, functions, and problems of state government; emphasis on Tennessee government. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or permission of instructor. POLS 3213 - Intro to Public Policy (3) Public policy formulation process and some of the major substantive areas of policy concern in America; emphasis on framework for identifying and analyzing substance of public problems, policy making and policy administration. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or permission of instructor. POLS 3215 - Interest Groups/Amer Politics (3) Role and impact of interest groups within American political system, including group theory, tactics, and group relationships with various governmental institutions. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or permission of instructor. POLS 3216 - Political Parties/Elections (3) Political parties and elections in the American political system; emphasis on party organization and activities, campaign strategies and techniques, voting behavior, and two-party system. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or permission of instructor. POLS 3217 - The Political Media (3) Interactions between the political world and the commercial media, emphasizing the variety of methods used by political elites to influence political perceptions. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or permission of instructor. POLS 3218 - The American Presidency (3) (4219). Contemporary American presidency; Constitutional roots for growth of presidential power; roles of persuasion, reputation, and prestige in shaping foreign and domestic policy; presidential elections; conflicts between executive, legislative, and judicial branches. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or permission of instructor. POLS 3219 - Judicial Process (3) Judicial selection, civil and criminal trial procedure, organization of state and federal courts, U.S. Supreme Court decision making process; issues surrounding judicial review. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or permission of instructor. POLS 3220 - U. S. Congress (3) Origins, organization, functions, and activities of the U.S. Congress. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or permission of instructor. POLS 3221 - Public Opinion (3) Exploration of political attitudes and behavior; examination of such topics as sources of political knowledge; how political attitudes are formed and changed; how public opinion is measured; why people vote the way they do. POLS 3302 - West Europe Govt/Politics (3) Comparative study of selected political systems of Western European States. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1301. POLS 3306 - Latin American Govt/Politics (3) Forms of organization, functions and operations of government in Latin America; emphasis on development of political institutions and present day trends. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1301. POLS 3309 - Govt/Politics of Mid East (3) Analysis of organization and functions of governments in area dominated by tenets of Islam; examination of origin and development of Arab-Israeli conflict. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1301. POLS 3310 - Politics/Developed World (3) Analysis of politics in countries of the developed world; emphasis on historical patterns of state development, structures and institutions; patterns of political participation and policy making. POLS 3320 - Human Rights/World Politics (3) History and conceptual underpinnings of modern concept of human rights; human rights in international law; political, economic, and other factors affecting extent to which governments meet their human rights legal obligations; actual human rights practices and conditions in countries; specific challenges of evidence-based human rights research. POLS 3325 - Politics/Developing World (3) Exploration of politics of regions and countries typically labeled as "developing"; democratization, corruption, role of military in politics, debt, poverty, conflict, globalization, activities of non-governmental organizations. POLS 3330 - Politics/Globalization (3) Analysis of major theories and political implications of globalization; order and disorder in global system; policy-making and governance in globalizing system. POLS 3340 - Power/Politics/State (3) Examination of major conceptual traditions in analysis of the state. POLS 3401 - Legal/Pol Thght Classical (3) Question of justice and its relation to law and politics; emphasizes confrontation between classical and modern views. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 1101, or PHIL 1102, or POLS 1101, or POLS 1102, or permission of instructor. POLS 3402 - Legal/Political Thght Modern (3) Question of justice and its relation to law and politics; emphasizes confrontation between early and recent modernity. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 1101, or PHIL 1102, or POLS 1101, or POLS 1102, or permission of instructor. POLS 3405 - Intro Law/Jurisprudence (3) Sources, functions, and processes of law. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 1101, or PHIL 1102, or POLS 1101, or POLS 1102, or permission of instructor. POLS 3410 - Contemporary Political Thght (3) Study of political thought in 20th and 21st centuries. POLS 3415 - Feminist Political Theory (3) Fundamental questions, concepts, schools of thought within contemporary feminist political thought. POLS 3420 - Race and Politics in U.S. (3) Examination of the complex and contested politics of race and racism in the United States; topics may include civil rights, integration, immigration law, the criminal justice system, the meaning of Native American sovereignty. POLS 3505 - International Organizations (3) Theories and concepts of organization of international policy focused on the institutions, both formal and informal, through which much international interaction occurs. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1501, or permission of instructor. POLS 3506 - American Foreign Policy (3) Domestic sources, implementation, and content of U.S. foreign policy. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030 or 1501. POLS 3509 - Contmp Prblm Intl Relation (3) Studies or problems in area of world politics. May be repeated for credit once, with change of content. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1501, or permission of instructor. POLS 4101 - Political Statistics (3) (Same as PADM 4101). Introduction to analysis of quantitative data, and statistical hypothesis testing in the fields of political science and public and health administration. POLS 4200 - Envrnmntl Law/Policy/Regulatn (3) Survey of the principal federal laws, policies and regulations concerning environmental use and protection. POLS 4211 - Const Law/National Powers (3) Relationships and controls of three branches and nature of division of power between nation and states; emphasis on role of Supreme Court as arbiter in constitutional system. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or permission of instructor. POLS 4212 - Const Law Civil Liberty (3) Background, role, and legitimate extent of civil rights and liberties in the United States. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or permission of instructor. [G] POLS 4222 - Urban Politics (3) Roles and processes of politics and governance in urban America in contest of global, social; economic influences on cities and suburbs. POLS 4223 - Issues/Urban Politics (3) Selected issues in urban politics and policy. POLS 4230 - Legislative Interns (3-12) Supervised internship working with Tennessee General Assembly or other legislative bodies on current legislative programs. Seminar sessions to discuss and analyze problems with which interns are working. May be repeated for total of 12 credits. (S/U) PREREQUISITE: permission of department. POLS 4231 - Admin Internship (3-12) (Same as PADM 4231). Supervised internship working with administrative branches of national, state, or local governments. Seminar sessions to discuss and analyze problems with which interns are working. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of department POLS 4307 - Govt and Pol Communist China (3) Institutions of government, political process, political elites, political groups and political socialization in Communist China. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1301. POLS 4315 - Revolution/Political Violence (3) Comparative analysis of forms and causes of political violence within nations; revolutions, ethnic conflict, secessionist movements, terrorism. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1301. POLS 4317 - Democratic Transitions (3) Comparison of transition from authoritarian rule to democracy in Latin America, Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe; consideration of institutional design of democracy and impact of culture on democratic transition and consolidation. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1301. POLS 4399 - Res & Studies Abroad (1-6) Supervised field research and studies in selected foreign countries. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of the department. POLS 4405 - Origin/Dev Amer Pol Thought (3) Origin and development of political thought in United States from colonial to present time; emphasis on relation between political thought and political institutions and practices. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 1101, or PHIL 1102, or POLS 1101, or POLS 1102, or permission of instructor. [G] POLS 4415 - African-Am Pol Thght to 1900 (3) Thought of representative African-Americans upon fundamental questions of justice, right, persuasion, power and accommodation prior to the twentieth century. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, 1101, or 1102. POLS 4416 - African-Am Pol Tht from 1900 (3) Thought of representative African-Americans upon fundamental questions of justice, right, persuasion, power and accommodation in the twentieth century. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, 1101, or 1102. POLS 4504 - International Law (3) Nature, scope, duties, rights, and evolutionary trends of international law. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1501, or permission of instructor. POLS 4506 - Prob American Foreign Policy (3) Studies or problems of American foreign policy. May be repeated for a maximum 6 credit hours with permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030 or 1501. POLS 4508 - Theories Internatl Relations (3) Theoretical approaches to study of international politics; consideration of various schools of thought, methods, and substantive literatures. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1501, or permission of instructor. POLS 4510 - Politics of Global Economy (3) Consideration of manner in which political processes affect and are affected by economic processes at global level. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1501, or permission of instructor. POLS 4511 - International Security (3) Exploration of major issues and topics of international security studies; forms of conflict and diplomacy; proliferations of weapons; insecurity for human beings across the international system. POLS 4512 - Global Environmental Politics (3) Exploration of major issues and topics of politics of global environment, including governing the global environment, multilateral agreements, issues of sustainability, and environmental justice. POLS 4701 - Policy Perspectives (3) Senior capstone seminar requiring students to analyze and solve series of problems in public policy. Students draw upon each subfield of discipline and utilize variety of skills and methods in addressing issues of domestic, foreign and comparative policy. PREREQUISITE: 15 hours of political science courses. PREREQUISITE: POLS 1030, or permission of instructor. POLS 4702 - Independent Study (1-3) Independent investigation of research problem or directed reading in selected area of political science under tutorial supervision of member of political science faculty. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of department chair. POLS 4709 - Mock Trial (3-6) Experiential learning about the U.S. legal system, jurisprudence, trial court procedure, the work that attorneys do. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. POLS 4820 - Political History of Israel (3) (Same as JDST 4820). Interdisciplinary study of political stages in the development of the State of Israel, from mid 19th century to current times, with particular attention paid to key figures in the Zionist movement. POLS 4999 - Senior Thesis (3) Independent research project conducted under direction of faculty supervisor. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .