#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-training/UMTech/SOP/UMDrive_Space_Allocation_SOP.pdf
Updated: 10 /1 0 /2014 Page 1 of 2 Standard Operating Procedure For umDrive Space Al location I. Background and Purpose The purpose of this document is to establish guidelines for determining appropriate allocation of space within umDrive . UmDrive is a technology resource available to and shared by all students, faculty, and staff at The University of Memphis. Due to the finite amount of total storage space available for document storage on UmDrive and the size of the user community, guidelines to determine space allocation are necessary. II. Definitions a. Group Directory UmDrive space assigned to an official University group with one owner and a variety of users b. Personal Directory UmDrive space assigned to an individual user c. UmDrive communal, web - based storage space hosted on a secure server and managed by the Information Technology Division (ITD) III. Technical Parameters of UmDrive UmDrive is designed and managed as a centralized, web - based storage system for providing access to and sharing of work in progress as well as serving as a simple web hosting solution for individuals and groups. UmDrive is not a high capacity service and is not an ideal substitute for local file servers, especially if speed and storage space are primary requirements. A departmental or project file server with controlled file share access is still the best solution for bulk storage or archiving documents and data. IV. Space Request Evaluation Procedure Personal Directory Each student, staff, and faculty is allotted 500MB for personal directories. a. Student personal directories are restricted to 500MB each. b. Faculty and staff may request a space allocation increase of 250MB by submitting a Service Desk Ticket at or calling 678 - 8888. Updated: 10 /1 0 /2014 Page 2 of 2 i. Before the request is approved, faculty and staff are asked to empty their UmDrive Trash folder to ensure optimal usage of assigned space. The existing quota is often sufficient once the personal trash folder is emptied and space is reclaimed. ii. Subsequent requests for personal directory space increases are made at the discretion of the UmDrive service administrators and subject to approval by ITD. V. Space Request Evaluation Procedure Group Directory a. Students may request a group directory for their University - sponsored Registered Student Organization by submitting a Service Desk Ticket at or calling 678 - 8888. i. Requests for student group directories are subject to approval by the Local Support Providers (LSP) for the Office of Student Activities. ii. The LSPs for the Office of Student Activities are the owners of group directories for student organizations. iii. Student group directories are restricted to 250MB of space. b. Faculty and staff may request a group directory for collaborative work by submitting a Service Desk Ticket at or calling 678 - 8888. i. Faculty and staff group directories contain 500MB of space initially. ii. Faculty and staff may request a space allocation increase of 250MB for a group directory by submitting a Service Desk Ticket at or calling 678 - 8888. iii. Before the request is approved, faculty and staff are asked to empty their UmDrive Trash folder to ensure optimal usage of assigned space. iv. Subsequent requests for group directory space increases are made at the discretion of the UmDrive service administrators and subject to approval by ITD.