#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT3812001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MGMT 3812 - Section 001 - Managing Employee Wellness Tuesdays 5:30 - 8:30pm , Room 259 Fall 2015 , 3 Credit Hours Instructor: Dr. Kathy A. Tuberville, SPHR Phone1: 901 - 678 - 2222 , 678 - 4740, Email is the best way to contact me E - mail: K.Tuberville@memphis.edu Office: Faculty office, FCBE 315. Alternative location -- FCBE 274 Office Hours: Monday, 2:30 - 4 :30pm and Tuesdays, 4:15 - 5:15 , all others by appointment. Course Overview Overview of employee wellness programs, their impact on employee retention, productivity, healthcare costs, and other critical organizational outcomes; emphasis on the importance of personal health, legal and human behavior issues of employee wellness program implementation, and the development of an organizational culture of health. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: None Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Bray, I. (2012). Healthy employees, healthy business. (2 nd ed.). Berkley, CA:Nolo. Accompanying websites: (general website), - employees - healthy - business - HLTH.ht ml (forms and nutrition journals). Course Materials and Updates Check eCourseware frequently for updates. Many reading assignments as well as project updates will be posted during the semester. Method of Instruction A variety of methods will be used to deliver course content and r each the learning objectives of this course. These include, but are not limited to: lectures, int eractive class discussions, rolplay, and community gu est lectures. An experi ential learning project will be implemented in this course. Class Attendance and Participation. A sign - up sheet will be circulated each session. There will be no make - up quizzes for unexcused absences (inform the instructor prior to class if you will be absent). If you are absent, obtain class notes and handouts from another student. In cases of a bona fide emergency or illness, the instructor can, at her discretion, make provisi ons for quizzes to be made up. Late assignments will NOT be accepted . The instructor maintains a zero tolerance policy for any cheating or academic dishonesty. Email ed assignments will not be accepted unless the instructor approves in advance for unique circumstances. Plan to hand your work in early if you are going to be out of class when an assignment is due. Course Objectives : This course is designed to provide st udents with an overview of the importance of Employee improving the health and wellness of their employees. Current research shows that health, work behavior, an d the value of human capital are linked and, moreover, that developing healthier employees results in a more productive workforce. This course is designed to introduce undergraduate students to the scientific study and practice of (a) managing personal h ealth and wellness, and (b) managing organizational health and wellness programs in business organizations. After completing the course, students will be able to: Design and implement a personal health and wellness program that addresses the main areas of exercise and dietary - related health and wellness. Understand the psychological, financial, and health/wellness value of lifestyle and non - diet based nutritional interventions in business organizations. Analyze, evaluate, and develop the key components of organizational wellness promotion strategies. These components include health and wellness risk factors, costs, and drivers; wellness culture and health assessment; organizational wellness policies and programs; and individual/self engagement, motivation, and behavior change. Understand how wellness programs can be used to enhance HR recruiting and retention efforts. Understand the legal and employee relations issues involved in wellness program design and implementation. wellness in terms of costs, social responsibility, employee morale, and long - term organizational well - being. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree BBA omes.pdf Grading and Evaluation Criteria Method of Evaluation : The course is graded with letter grades, A F. Grades will be determined by completion (or non - completion) of the following. Assignments points Grading guidelines (points) Team Project 150 A = (90 - 100%) Articles - 2 @ 50 pts each 100 B = (80 - 89%) Quizzes - 2 @ 75 pts each 150 C = (70 - 79%) Individual Project 100 D = (60 - 69% Final Exam 150 F = Less than 60% Tests 2@100 200 In - class group projects (3) 105 (35 points each) Total 955 Changes To Assignments BE ON TIME. Most changes to the schedule will be announced at the beginning of class. Assignments : Article Synopsis - Students will submit an article related to the topic listed on the course schedule. Articles should be from scholarly journals or you may use from the articles listed on the syllabi. No Wikipedia articles for these assignments. You will have two dates for articles to be submitted a format will be given to write a brief synopsis of the Employee Wellness issue involved in the article. These will be written as a short paper with appropriate APA citations and references. These cannot be made up, check the course outline for due dates carefully. 50 points each. For each synopsis, you will have two articles required. One will be provided by Dr. Tuberville and you will select one of your choice that is highly related to the topic from a credible source that demonstrates you researched the topic well. Your second article should be from a different source, demonstrating your resear ch. Writing errors will count so be sure to proof carefully for grammar and proofing errors. Be sure to cite and reference your scholarly sources carefully; use APA resources provided to you. Employee Wellness Team Project Human Resource professionals have to collaborate on best practices for success within their field. This project is designed for you to work with a team in order to explore one of the many Employee Wellness trends occurring in the industry. The class will develop a Wellness Fair that will be offered in the FCBE atrium for other students. This project was well - received by previous students and provided a strong experiential learning experience. The instructor will distribute specific project information i n class. 150 points. Individual Project The student will submit a written Employee Wellness report at the end of the semester. Project guidelines will be provided in class. The project is worth a maximum of 100 points. You should begin this project with the Health Assessment at the beginning of the semester and incorporate changes you program and your recommendations for enhancement regarding empl oyee wellness options. 100 points. In - class Group Projects: There are three in - class group projects. You will work with your Team Project group on these 3 projects. There will be a topic for each project. Each group is to bring in an article related t o the assigned in - class group projects. Because these occur in class, they cannot be made up. Groups may be asked to present their work to the class the same evening. heck the syllabus and identify the three dates of the in - class group projects and mark your calendar accordingly. The instructor will provide a format for the in - class group projects and the group will submit an assignment after each project. This grade is a group grade for those students who are in class. Each in - class group project is 35 points, total of 105 points. These in - class projects provide an excellent opportunity to learn from your group members, engage in the topic with discussion, and hav e a fun time learning more about the assigned topic . Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Our exam will be Tuesday, December 8 at 5:30 p.m. Suggestions And Concerns Please see the instructor for any special issues or concerns which may be impeding your progress in the course. Feedback concerning the class/course is appreciated. Student Services For more information on advising and tutoring, or technical assistance, please email, FCBE Student Services Students With Disabilities Any student who anticipates a need for class or test accommodations based on the impact of a disability is encouraged to speak with me privately to discuss your specific needs. Students with disabilities should also contact Disability Resources for Students (DRS) at 110 Wilder Tower, 678 - 2880. DRS c oordinates accommodations for students with documented disabilities. For more information visit the DRS website at . Inclimate Weather S hould inclimate weather occur, please listen to TV news broadcasts for closing information. Additionally, the U of M website will indicate if school is closed or not. Helpful Websites Society of Human Resource Management, rg. Center For Disease Control, Choose My Plate, Memphis Business Group On Health, . memphisbusinessgroup Healthy Common Table Alliance . healthymemphis .org/ Spark People (Health and Fitness) Affordable Healthcare Act WebMD Tennessee County Rankings For Health PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ADDITIONAL LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES The Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center. If you are not familiar with the opportunities available through this FCBE Center, you are missing a number of great opportunities! You can earn a Complete Professional Program Certificate which is highly valuable to your professional development and career image. These options include: Professionalism First! Business Etiquette Fogelman Feeds Fogelman Fit Toastmasters Know Good, Do Good, Thrive (incorporated into classes) Women In Action Against All Odds This course counts as the requirement for Fogelman Fit so you are on your way already to achieving this certificate. See Dr. Tuberville for more information regarding The Complete Professional Program Certificate. Career Resources: HRM professionals need to be familiar with career - related support resourc es. You are encouraged to post your resume through the Fogelman Internship Network and take advantage of the resources available through the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center. SOCIETY OF HUMAN RESOURCES (SHRM) (national organization) SHRM Memphis - You are encouraged to visit the local SHRM professional chapter meetings. Extra credit will be given to student who attends monthly meetings. You must register for the meetings and see me during the event. To register go to - memphis.org . The meetings are usually on the third Tuesday of each month. Excellent opportunity to network with local professionals and learn more about human resources. See Dr.Tuberville for more information. Extr a credit available for meeting attendance. (5 points per meeting) SHRM Student Chapter University of Memphis. If you are interested in Human Resources, a student chapter of SHRM is available through the University of Memphis. This organization is also an excellent opportunity to learn more about the field of human resources and meet students from the campus as well. Faculty sponsors for SHRM Student Chapter, Dr. Tuberville and Dr. Carol Danehower. Extra credit available for meeting attendance. As the semester progresses, additional extra credit options may become available. These opportunities will be announced in class. Extra Credit: Students may earn up to 40 points of extra credit by participating in approved professional development opportunities. These include: FCBE Internship Fair September 17, 2015 Professionalism First! starts September 17, 18 SHRM Student Chapter meetings, dates to be identified Other options will be announced during the semester. You will turn in your extra credit by November 15 for review and potential credit. The Extra Credit Summary will be posted on the course page in eCourseware. Download the form from the course webpage and keep track of your activities. Career Reflection: Regardless of your positi on or your industry, Human Resource management is an important component of your responsibilities as a career professional, particularly of a manager or executive. Learn the foundations of human resource management well and implement the practices that wi ll both result in a beneficial culture for your organization as well as a legally defensible position within the workplace. Everyone is some way is a Human Resource manager! Recruiting and Retention are key components to a successful organization invest time in this course and its fundamental principles and your career will reap the benefits later. An Employee Wellness Program is a critical component for innovative organizations as they work toward building more effective and productive organizations tha t attract and retain the best talent in the marketplace. Career Opportunities in Wellness If this is an area of interest for you, there are career opportunities developing routinely. Talk with Dr. Tuberville regarding this new area of HR! Course Outline ( subject to change as determined by the instructor responsibility to acquire syllabi changes, announced in class). The Rationale For Employee Wellness Programs Date Chapter/s Chapter Topic Tuesday, Aug 25 1 Overview of class. Introduction to employee wellness. Tuesday, Sept 1 2 Successful Wellness Programs , Mrs. Christie Travis, Memphis Business Group on Health The Rationale For Employee Wellness Programs Tuesday, Sept 8 3 Legal Issues For Wellness Programs Mrs. Renee Frazier, Common Table Health Alliance , Article Synopsis #1 Due In - class Group Project #1 The Successful Components Of A Wellness Plan Tuesday, Sept 15 3, 4 Legal Issues Jeff Weintraub, Labor Attorney Tuesday, Sept 22 5 , 12 Launching A Successful Program Dr. Marian Levy, Obesity Article Synopsis #2 Due Tuesday, Sept 29 5, 6, 12 Disease Prevention and Obesity Quiz #1 Chapters 1 - 5, notes from speakers and class lectures Mr. Mark Lehman, International Paper Tuesday, Oct 6 7 Healthy Eating and Nutrition Ms. Pam Shields, First Tennessee BAnk In - class Group Project #2 Oct 10 - 13 Fall Break Enjoy a Healthy Fall Break! Tuesday, Oct 20 8, 9 Stress In The Workplace Structuring An Employee Wellness Program Tuesday, 8 Fitness In Organizations Test #1 Oct 27 14 Choosing Health Benefits , Issues With Tobacco Tuesday, Nov 3 10 11 Issues With Tobacco , Special Concerns for Emotional Health The Addicted Worker In class Group Project #3 Tuesday, Nov 10 11 Mental Health Awareness Quiz #2 Tuesday, Nov 17 13, 15 Wellness Fair Competition Project Set up 2:20 or earlier, Atrium Lobby Assessing The Outcomes of An Employee Wellness Program Tuesday, Nov 24 (Have a Happy Thanksgiving Day!) Special Issues In Wellness Programs Chronic Disease Workplace Policies For Wellness Programs Test #2 Tuesday, Dec 1 Course wrap - up, review for exams Individual Project Due Tues, Dec 8 Final Exam