#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/pre_school.php
Pre-School &amp; Child Care Administration - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Pre-School &amp; Child Care Administration Pre-school &amp; Child Care Administration These guidelines are designed for persons seeking careers in the administration of early childhood programs including childcare centers, both for-profit and non-profit; private and public pre-kindergarten programs; Head Start; pre-schools; parents' day out programs; before and after school care; and centers for children with special needs. Also served by these guidelines are persons with experience in childcare settings from a wide variety of backgrounds, including childcare volunteers and aides, as well as teachers and directors. In addition to core content in early childhood professional knowledge, there is course work to develop skills in fiscal management, recruiting and hiring personnel, health and safety management, board relations, marketing and public relations, and liaison with professional associations and regulatory agencies. Note: This program does not lead to Tennessee state licensure for school administration. A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. B. Coordinated Study (57 hrs) Students must earn a grade of “C-” or better in all Coordinated Study courses. Child Development and Learning* (24 hrs) EDPR 2111 Development Across the Life Span SPED 2000 Issues of Human Diversity CDFS 4223 Home, School and Community Engagement ECED 3555 Observation/Assessment Infant/Early Childhood Development ECED 4500 Emergent Literacy &amp; Language Development ECED 4510 Foundations of Early Childhood Education EDPR 4301 Early Childhood Development CDFS 4101 Integrated Curriculum for Early Learners Families and Culture: (9 hrs) (Select ONE course from EACH group) Group A SOCI 3401 Social Inequality SOCI 3422 Racial and Ethnic Minorities SOCI 4420 Racial Inequality SOCI 4442 Sociology of Poverty Group B ANTH 3511 Culture, Kin and Family ANTH 4411 Urban Anthropology HIST 4831 History of American Family HIST 4863 History of Childhood in America SOCI 3831 Marriage and the Family Group C HIST 4851 History of Women in America SOCI 3432 Sociology of Gender SOCI 4460 Black and White Women in the South UNIV 2304 Gender and Society Program Administration (27 hou rs) Fiscal Management (9 hours) ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting I ACCT 2020 Fundamentals of Accounting II MIS 2749 Foundation/Information Systems (Students may take COMP 1200 in place of MIS 2749) Human Resource Management (6 hours) MGMT 3110 Organization and Management MGMT 3215 Management of Human Resources Health And Safety Management (6 hours) NUTR 2202 Nutrition EXSS 3306 Elementary School Health and Wellness Marketing and Public Relations (Select one course) JOUR 3400 Introduction to Public Relations or MKTG 3010 Principles of Marketing Internship (3 hours): UNIV 4110 C. Thematic Studies (6 hours) D. Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project (completed during the final semester) E. Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .