#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/bus/acct.php
ACCT Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning ACCT Courses ACCOUNTANCY (ACCT) NOTE: Students taking Business courses will be charged an additional $35 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ACCT 7920-7929. Special Topics in Accountancy. (1-3). Varied topics. May be repeated with change in topic. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Faculty Director. ACCT 6211 - Adv Financial Reporting (3) Business combinations and consolidated financial statements, accounting for foreign currency transactions, translation of foreign subsidiary financial statements, and partnership accounting. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3120. ACCT 6241 - Advanced Auditing (3) (0551). Auditing of computer-based accounting systems; emphasis on audit software and computer auditing techniques used to evaluate accounting system controls and test accounting data integrity; nature and use of expert systems in accounting with emphasis on their use as an audit tool. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3120; PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: ACCT 4240. ACCT 6520 - Taxation/Bus Entities (3) Introduction to the federal income taxation of corporations, partnerships, estates, and trusts. PREPREQUISITE: ACCT 3510 or permission of instructor. ACCT 7000 - Fundamentals Of Acct (3) (7001). Accelerated and in-depth introduction to the conceptual foundations of accounting as a dynamic information system for measuring and communicating economic and financial data for planning and control purposes. Primarily for non-business students but is acceptable to remove accounting prerequisites for the MBA and MS programs. ACCT 7040 - Legal Concepts Business (3) A survey of the legal, social, and political factors that affect business operations; prerequisite for MBA Core Knowledge and Skills. ACCT 7050 - Corp Governance/Bus Ethics (2) Detailed analysis of the role of corporate governance in the free enterprise system and capital markets; focused consideration of moral principles, ethical standards, and corporate code of business ethics. ACCT 7080 - Financial/Managerial Acct Mgrs (3) Use of accounting information by an organization's investors, creditors, regulatory authorities and managers; develops financial credit analysis skills useful in business decision making; analysis of accounting information useful for monitoring efficiency, quality, and timeliness of an operation; pricing and costing of products and services; planning and performance measurement. ACCT 7110 - Acct for Decision Making (3) (7010). Financial reporting from a decision-maker's perspective, managerial use of accounting information; includes case studies and research projects. NOTE: Not open to students who have received credit for ACCT 3310 or a similar course. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 7000 or equivalent. ACCT 7120 - Strategic Accounting (3) Theoretical aspects of financial reporting focusing on the quality of accounting reports and contemporary accounting controversies; case studies and research projects. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3120 ACCT 7140 - Financial Statement Analysis (3) Examining fmancial statements in the context of identifying the financial information available to analysts as well as techniques useful in transforming this basic information into forms more useful for analysis. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 2010 or ACCT 7110. ACCT 7172 - Global Acct Policies (3) Accelerated and in-depth introduction to conceptual foundations of financial and managerial accounting; selected tax topics. Restricted to students enrolled in IMBA concentration. ACCT 7241 - Internal Auditing (3) Authoritative internal audit standards, ethics of internal auditors, techniques of efficiency and effectiveness audits. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 4240. ACCT 7310 - Adv Cost Accounting (3) Budgets, determination of standards, variances and their functions, cost reports, profit projecting, direct costing, gross profit and breakeven analysis, cost-profit volume analysis, capital expenditure control, comparative cost analysis. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3310 or ACCT 7110. ACCT 7320 - Controllership (3) Controllership function; evolution of management accounting; conceptual framework of management accounting compared and contrasted with financial accounting; functional tools used by controllers; emphasis on research, and written and oral communication skills in context of management accounting. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3310. ACCT 7412 - Legal/Acctg Aspects Entrep (3) Prepares students to understand the regulatory framework for establishing a firm, legal forms of a business such as sole proprietorship, partnership, S corporation, and LLC; study of federal securities regulations, accounting, auditing, taxes, financial reporting, and uses of accounting data. The course also covers contract law, cyber law, copyrights and patents, ethics and social entrepreneurship. ACCT 7420 - Acct Databases/Systems (3) Accounting systems analysis and design; advanced system analysis tools; integrating accounting and computer controls; ACCESS; queries; forms and reports; achieving database normalization; development of working accounting model; project; lab environment. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3110. ACCT 7510 - Tax Research & Theory (3) Advanced study of federal taxation with emphasis on tax research methodology and various theoretical precepts; integration of basic tax knowledge with skillful tax research to accomplish desired ethical tax objectives. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 6520. ACCT 7511 - Tax- Partnships/Prtnrs (3) Tax law organization, operation, and liquidation of partnerships; general overview of Subchapter K, acquisitions of partnership interests, basis of partner's partnership interest, taxation of partnership operations, transfers of partnership interests, partnership distributions, death or retirement of partner, adjustments to basis of partnership assets. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 7510 or permission of the instructor. ACCT 7512 - Tax-Corp/Shrhldrs (3) Tax law: organization, operation, and liquidation of corporations; organization of corporation under Code Section 351 and related problems; corporation's capital structure; corporate income tax; corporate elections under Subchapter S; stock redemptions and partial liquidations; and corporate reorganizations and liquidations. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 7510 or permission of the instructor. ACCT 7514 - Estate And Gift Tax (3) Transfer taxes (gift tax, estate tax, generation-skipping transfer taxes; all taxes on transfer of property accumulated after imposition of income tax); federal gift and death taxes with emphasis on tax planning. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 7510 or permission of the instructor. ACCT 7518 - Selected Topics/Taxatn (3) Special tax considerations of individuals, partnership, corporations, estates, trusts, exempt organizations, and governmental entities. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 7510 or permission of the instructor. ACCT 7610 - Acct Issues/Servc Econ (3) This culminating experience integrates financial, managerial, accounting information systems, auditing and tax knowledge and skills developed in core courses of the MS in accounting. PREREQUISITE: 15 hours of graduate-level accounting courses and permission of either Director of School of Accountancy or accounting masters advisor. ACCT 7626 - Financial Report/Audit Stand (3) Theory and practice of financial accounting and reporting for profit and non-profit entities, including governments; auditing and attestation standards and procedures. PREREQUISITE: permission of the School of Accountancy. ACCT 7627 - Regulatory/Business Envrnmnt (3) Theory and practice of regulatory and business environments; nature and types of common business structures; technology in business environment; business laws and regulatory issues; taxation of businesses; individuals and property transactions. PREREQUISITE: permission of the School of Accountancy. ACCT 7910 - Problems In Acct (1-3) Directed independent reading and research projects in an area selected by the student with the approval of the supervising faculty member and Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the director. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ACCT 7911 - Intrnshp Accounting (1-6) Internship in business organization to gain on-the-job experience and to develop writing, organizational, and applied performance skills. Projects approved and supervised by area of Accountancy. NOTE: Credit not applicable to accounting master's degrees. PREREQUISITE: Graduate standing and permission of College Internship Director. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ACCT 7996 - Thesis (3-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ACCT 8000 - Indep Accounting Research (1-6) Examination of research issues, opportunities and challenges in accounting as related to a student?s field of concentration under direction of a faculty member. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ACCT 8610 - Seminar/Audit Research (3) Examination of analytical, experimental and archival research in auditing relevant to all types of auditing and assurance services. This course focuses on the development of research skills related to auditing theory, practice and empirical research methods, a fundamental understanding and appreciation of the role of theory and anecdotal evidence in applied work and empirical research in auditing. ACCT 8621 - Agency and Fin Econ Theory Sem (3) Examination of theory and empirical research in financial accounting as related to capital markets and economic consequences. This course focuses on empirical accounting research, including the investigation of a broad range of research questions, and uses a variety of empirical research techniques, the role of accounting information in capital markets, the role of theory and anecdotal evidence in applied work and empirical research and economic consequences. ACCT 8710 - Acct Research Sem/Adv Cap Mkts (3) In-depth study of existing body of accounting literature in various areas of economics-based empirical research; emphasis on research design and methodology; design and development of individual research projects; applying various research methods in accounting literature; and experience in presenting research, refereeing papers, and publishing research projects. ACCT 8720 - Acct Research Judgmt/Decision (3) Examination of research on judgment and decision-making behavior in accounting that involves the observation of the behavior or beliefs of accountants or users of accounting information. This course focuses on experimental design, field studies and surveys as alternative methods for conducting empirical research relevant to real-world problem-solving activities. ACCT 8731 - Seminar/Mgmt Accounting (3) Examination of emerging and cutting-edge management accounting issues. This course focuses on the theoretical framework and empirical setting of managerial accounting research as relevant to the decision-making processes of management. Topics covered in this course include research on the application of knowledge and experience in accounting and financial reporting, budgeting, decision support, risk assessment and management, internal control and earnings management. ACCT 8740 - Introductory Research Seminar (3) Examination of the nature of accounting research, including theoretical framework, research questions, hypothesis development and research methodology and testing. Emerging and cutting-edge accounting research is examined in all areas of financial, managerial, auditing, tax, systems and international. This course develops research skills in retrieving data from databases and replicating existing accounting studies. ACCT 8910 - Problems in Accounting (1-12) Examination of research issues, opportunities and challenges in accounting as related to a student's field of concentration under direction of a faculty member. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .