#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT4240001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MGMT 4240 Compensation & Performance Appraisal Section 00 1 Fall Semester 2015 Monday & Wednesday, 2:20 - 3:45 p.m., FCB 121 (Last updated: 8 / 23 /2015) Instructor: H. Kristl Davison , Ph . D . Phone: 901.678. 4431 E - mail: kristl.davison@memphis.edu Office: FCBE # 244 Office Hours: 4:00 5:30 p.m. Monday & Wednesday, and by appointment Course Overview : This course focuses on specific areas in Human Resources Management, namely compensation planning and performance management. As organizations have sought to improve the motivation and retention of their employees, compensation has become increasing important as a str ategy. This course will examine compensation theories and models, job analysis and job evaluation, pay systems and structures, benefits, performance appraisal and management, as well as internal and external fairness , and legal issues in compensation. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: Pre - requisites: MGMT 3110, 3215, 3510 . Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Milkovich, G. T., Newman, J. M., & Gerhart, B. (2013). Compensation (11th ed.). Boston, MA: Irwin/McGraw - Hill. ISBN: 978 - 0078029493. Barcelona, D., & Martocchio, J. (2011). Building Strategic Compensation Systems, Student Manual (6 th ed.). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall. ISBN: 978 - 0136106463. Course Objectives : 1. To examine the current state and emerging trends in compensation and performance management . 2. To recognize the role and limitations of compensation in motivation and retention of employees . p. 2 3. To understand the legal issues in compensation and the legislation and regulations relevant to these issues . 4. To develop skills in de cision - making in compensation management, particularly through the use of practical exercises . 5. To understand the different compensation approaches that may be useful for motivating various types of employees . 6. To heighten your awareness of ethical issues in the development of compensation systems. 7. To develop skill in compensation data analysis . 8. To develop skill in working in teams. 9. To enhance your written business communication skills. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program : Grading and Evaluation Criteria : Compensation Case ( 250 pts. ): The casebook that will be used for this class describes a hypothetical organization named e - sonic , which is facing various challenges as it grows. Groups of 4 - 6 students will complete the exercises in the casebook related to the internal consistency, market competitiveness, and recognition of individual achievements. Software will be pro vided for use with the casebook . The exercises are as follows: 1. The Phase I exercise involves the development of an in ternally consistent pay structure for e - sonic . This requires the development of job descriptions and a point evaluation method, then application of the method to the e - sonic jobs. A report detailing the method developed and job evaluation results for this exercise will be due on 10/ 5 . ( 100 pts. ) 2. The Phase II exercise involves creating an externally competitive pay structure for e - jobs. This involves determining the pay policy mix, selecting a pay policy level, defining the relevant competitors in th e market and matching jobs, and implementing the salary survey results by creating grades and ranges. A report detailing the pay structure developed for this exercise will be due on 11/ 4 . ( 100 pts. ) 3. The Phase III exercise involves recognizing individual ac hievements of e - sonic employees. This involves determining appropriate contribution strategies (seniority vs. merit), adjusting the pay of employees who are paid above the grade maximum or below the grade minimum, and designing a merit pay grid. A report d etailing the contribution strategy, pay decisions, and merit plan, along with a summary of the findings throughout the consulting project, will be due on 12/ 2 . (5 0 pts. ) p. 3 More information about each of the exercises will be provided as the course progresses . Grading of these case exercises will be based on the degree to which they: Address all the key decisions outlined in the case manual. Approach these questions in a systematic fashion. Are consistent with the objectives they specified. Help e - sonic becom e more successful. Note on Team Composition and Evaluation : Students will be assigned to teams by the instructor. Members of the same organization, fraternity, or sorority are NOT permitted in the same team, nor are family members, roommates, or members of the same varsity athletic program or function. It is your responsibility to notify me if this occurs on the date you are notified of your team assignment so that re - assignment can be done immediately. In this course, team members must evaluate every other member of their team using a rating form provided by the instructor. These ratings are due on the day . Ratings from these team member peer evaluations will be used to adjust the scores of your team members on team assignments. Thus, your team project grades will be partially determined by your other team members according to how much they believe you contributed to the tential to enhance the grades of those who contribute more, and can be very damaging to the grades of those who do not participate in full . If someone is not attending or performing, his/her course grade can be lowered by one to two letter grades by low pe er evaluations. Attendance will be taken by teams, and turned in to the instructor. Please note that because we will be dedicating class time to working on the Compensation Case, failure to attend can harm your team performance, and thus your team evaluati ons. Exams ( 750 pts. ): The four exams may contain multiple choice, true - false, matching, fill - in - the - blank, and/or short - answer questions. Exams will cover lectures and assigned readings, as well as class discussions and other course materials. The firs t three exams are each worth 150 pts. each and will cover only the topics addressed since the previous exam. The final exam is cumulative and is worth 300 pts. Final Course Grades : Final course grades are earned according to the following table: Point Range Assigned Grade 900 - 1000 Points A 800 - 899 Points B 700 - 799 Points C 600 - 699 Points D Under 600 Points F p. 4 Course Topics and Course Calendar (approximate) : We will sequentially discuss the following topic areas. Depending on how well we do on each topic, our forward progression may be slower in some areas but faster in other areas. All changes will be announced in class. Week Topic Readings Assignments/ Class Exercises 8/2 4 Introduction to Compensation & the Pay Model; Strategy Ch. 1 - 2, Preface Budget exercise 8/31 Internal Alignment Ch. 3 9/ 7 Labor Day Holiday ( Sept. 7) Job Analysis Ch. 4 Structure exercise 9/1 4 Job Evaluation Ch. 5 Point factor job evaluation exercise 9/2 1 Person - based Structures 9/23 Exam 1 (Ch. 1 - 4) Ch. 6 9/2 8 Competitiveness Ch. 7 10/ 5 Pay levels, Mix, & Structures Ch. 8 Phase I report due (10/5) 10/1 2 Fall Break ( Oct. 12) Pay - for - Performance Ch. 9 - 10 10/ 19 Performance Appraisal 10/21 Exam 2 (Ch. 5 - 8) Ch. 11 10/2 6 Benefits Ch. 12 11/ 2 Benefits (cont.) Ch. 13 Phase II report due (11/4) 11/9 Compensation of Special Groups Ch. 14 11/1 6 Compensation of Unions 11/18 Exam 3 (Ch. 9 - 13) Ch. 15 11/23 Government & Legal Issues Thanksgiving Break (Nov. 25 - 29) Ch. 17 11/30 Government & Legal Issues (cont.) ; Pay Administration Ch. 18 Phase III report due (12/ 2 ) 12/9 Comprehensive Final Exam, Wednesday, December 9 , 1:00 3:00 p.m. Please note due dates are strictly adhered to and refer to the day due, at the beginning of the class. p. 5 Final Exam Schedule: The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Course Policies : Syllabus and Course Changes: I reserve the right to make changes to the syllabus, course schedule, deadlines, and/or assignments any time, with reasonable prior notice to students. E - mail: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) ema il account. You will receive all official course correspondence at this email account and it is your responsibility to check your U of M email regularly during the semester. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly ch I do not use eCourseware email. You must email me at kristl.davison@memphis.edu. I will not respond to emails sent through the eCourseware email system. I strongl y recommend you email me from your U of M email rather than a personal email account. Email sent from stu go es straight to my spam folder, so please be aware of this possibility. eCourseware: You are responsible for learning how to use eCourseware, for ensuring that you have access to a reliable computer and adequate Internet connection, and for addressing technical problems immediately. Attendance: Class attendance is mandatory. I understand that students occasionally must miss class due to legitimate work - related or personal reasons. If you miss a class, I trust you that it's for a good reason (i.e., I do not need a written excuse or proof of why you missed). However, given that we will be doing exercises and group projects in class, missed classes can harm your grade as well as your comprehension of the material. On - time class attendance is important as you will have participation opportunities, exercises, tests, and group activities during class periods. Adding / Dropping : I f you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to th is page on the website . p. 6 Classroom Behavior and Communication : Cellular phones, pagers, PDAs, Blackberries, iPhones, iPads, laptops (unless used for class exercises), etc. are to be turned off during class time, especially during exams. The presence of these detracts during class time may harm your class grade. Ensure that your communication with me and your classmates is professional and courteous at all times in this course, just as you would in a b usiness setting. Likewise, you should expect professional and courteous communication from me. You are expected to demonstrate good written skills in all writing in this class (i.e., written assignments, online discussions, and emails), using correct spell ing, grammar, punctuation, and word usage. Poor writing is unacceptable and will be reflected in your grade. Ask me questions if you are confused about course expectations and assignments, but make sure you first read everything carefully (e.g., syllabus, course handouts, assignment instructions, course website, textbook, etc.) before requesting clarification. After reading If you are experiencing a problem in the course, I encourage you to notify me immediately rather than waiting until the semester is over. Deadlines, Extra Credit, and Make - Up Work: A ssignments and projects may be submitted anytime up to and includi ng the date due. . A deadline extension will be considered only if all of the following conditions are met: (1 ) Extreme e mergency and (2) Instructor contacted prior to the due date . Otherwise, late work will not be accepted after the due date. There is no extra credit offered in this course. Your final grade will be computed based on your work on the formal/assessed activiti es previously described in this syllabus. I do not ac cept make - up work or negotiate extra assignments for students who are failing the class because they did not complete the work as assigned. Exams & Quizzes : Make - up exams and quizzes will be given only in the event of extreme, unavoidable, and documented emergencies. If you are late or miss an exam or quiz without a valid excuse, you will not be permitted to retake it. All quizzes and exams are closed book, and students are expected to do their own work. Students will not be allowed to wear hats, caps, or visors during quizzes or exams. Backpacks, notes, etc. must be placed under your seat or in the front of the room. During exams, seating may be assigned by the instructor. Exam test booklets are tur ned in with the Scantron answer sheets. p. 7 Inclement Weather: In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at T he University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immedi ately notified. Additionally, T he University o f Memphis has established an I nclement Weather Hotline at 678 - 0888 as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in t he event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather . Click Here for information on TigerText. Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. nual is considered cheating. Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Student Services: Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance