#http://www.memphis.edu/law/faculty-staff/dr-jones.php
D.R. Jones - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Home School of Law Faculty D.R. Jones D.R. Jones Associate Dean for Information Resources, Law Library Director, and Assistant Professor of Law Phone (901) 678-3244 Email drjones@memphis.edu Fax Office Law School, Office 220 Office Hours SSRN About Professor Jones Professor Jones joined the Memphis law faculty in 2008. She teaches Copyright law. Professor Jones' scholarship explores copyright and privacy issues. She is currently the Chair of the American Association of Law Libraries' Copyright Committee. This is a national committee that represents, promotes and advocates AALL's interests regarding copyright and other intellectual property issues. Professor Jones has provided extensive professional service in law librarianship. She has served as Special Interest Section (SIS) Council Chair, a national level office in the American Association of Law Libraries; as the chair of one of the largest AALL SISs, and as President of one of the largest chapters of AALL in geographic coverage (ten states). She has shared her knowledge and experience by speaking on a variety of topics at numerous national, regional and state meetings and conferences, including the Conference for Law School Computing (CALI Conference). Education B.A. (summa cum laude), Mercer University; J.D. (cum laude), Mercer University School of Law; Master of Librarianship, with a certificate in law librarianship, University of Washington Admitted Georgia (inactive) Experience Deputy Director, Judge Ben C. Green Law Library, and Adjunct Assistant Professor of Law, Case Western Reserve School of Law, Cleveland, Ohio; Lawyering Skills I Instructor, University of San Diego School of Law, San Diego, California; Assistant Director for Reference Services, Boley Law Library, and Adjunct Professor of Law, Northwestern School of Law of Lewis and Clark College, Portland, Oregon; Attorney, Trotter, Smith and Jacobs, Atlanta, Georgia; Attorney, Kilpatrick and Cody, Atlanta, Georgia Teaching Interests Copyright Law. Publications Her recent publications are: Protecting the Treasure: An Assessment of State Court Rules and Policies for Access to Online Civil Court Records, 61 Drake Law Review 375 (2013), Locked Collections: Copyright and the Future of Research Support, 105 Law Library Journal 425 (2013) and Law Firm Copying and Fair Use: An Examination of Different Purpose and Fair Use Markets, forthcoming 56 South Texas Law Review Issue 2 (2014). The Locked Collections article won the American Association of Law Libraries Law Library Journal Article of the Year Award in July 2014. She has presented at a number of conferences, including the Annual Intellectual Property Scholars' Conference. She has also been a participant in the Annual Privacy Law Scholars' Conference. Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .