#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/cas/psyc.php
Psychology - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions Psychology PSYC (PSYC) PSYCHOLOGY Frank Andrasik, Ph.D., Chair Room 202, Psychology Building PSYC 1030 is a prerequisite for all other courses in the Department of Psychology. PSYC 1030 is required for either the major or minor in Psychology. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: PSYC 4010-29. Special Topics in Psychology. (1-3). Topics are varied and in online class listings. PSYC 4040-49. Honors Special Topics. (3). Topics varied and in online class listings. PSYC 1030 - General Psychology (3) (1200). Introduction to psychology as a science of behavior; history of psychology; research strategies; biological bases of behavior; learning; memory; intelligence; motivation; emotion; personality; psychological disorders; techniques of therapy and applied science. Honors sections are frequently available. [G] PSYC 1300 - Psychology as a Profession (3) Career options within the field; clarification of and post baccalaureate goals. Students will complete a personal plan that specifies long-term goals and how to achieve those goals. PREREQUISITE: PSYC 1030. PSYC 3010 - Research and Statistics I (4) Interpretation, design and conduct of psychological research and statistical methods used to analyze resulting data with emphasis on non-experimental methods, descriptive statistics and correlational methods. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PSYC 1030 and a minimum grade of C- in MATH 1100 or MATH 1420 or MATH 1710, or a minimum ALEKS score of 46, or permission of instructor. PSYC 3020 - Research and Statistics II (4) Interpretation, design and conduct of psychological research and statistical methods used to analyze resulting data with emphasis on experimental methods, inferential statistics and advanced correlational methods. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PSYC 1030, PSYC 3010. PSYC 3101 - Psychology of Personality (3) Introduction to development and functioning of normal person; variety of representative theoretical orientations examined; emphasis on psychoanalytic theories and other contemporary theoretical viewpoints. PSYC 3102 - Abnormal Psychology (3) Basic concepts of psychopathology with emphasis on the development of behavior deviations, description of various neurotic and psychotic reactions, and an introduction to methods of psychotherapy. PSYC 3103 - Child Psychology (3) Patterns of cognitive, interpersonal, and behavioral development from birth through early adolescence; psychological effects of genetic, organic and environmental influences as the child matures. PSYC 3106 - Social Psychology (3) Survey and analysis of mutual influence of individuals and groups, including topics in social thinking, social influence, and social relations. PSYC 3236 - Psychology of Gender (3) Current research and theory; examination of how gender is understood and represented in our culture and how gender shapes human experience and influences assessment of ourselves and others; postmodern and feminist criticisms of traditional psychological theory and research. PREREQUISITE: PSYC 1030. PSYC 3303 - Thinking/Cognitive Processes (3) Overview of fields of cognitive psychology and cognitive science, including perception and attention, short and long-term memory, language, problem solving, reasoning, and decision making. PSYC 3304 - Perceptual Psychology (3) Introduction to empirical and theoretical issues in perception; emphasis on classical and contemporary issues and approaches to perception pertaining to how information from environment is transformed, organized, represented and used by the perceiver in adapting to physical world. PSYC 3305 - Psyc Learning/Memory (3) Survey and analysis of basic processes involved in acquisition and retention of new behaviors and alteration of existing behaviors in animals and humans; examination of central theoretical concepts and issues in learning. PSYC 3306 - Physiological Psyc (3) Survey of physiological processes underlying sensation, perception, motivation and emotion, motor systems, unlearned and learned behavior patterns, memory and other psychological functions. PSYC 3307 - Animal Behavior (3) Synthesis of comparative psychological and ethological approaches to study of animal behavior; behavior genetics, species specific behaviors, behavior as a basis for phyletic classification, and major behavioral dimensions related to phylogenesis. PSYC 3506 - Human Sexuality (3) Survey of existing knowledge of human sexual behavior; physiological, anatomical, psychological and cultural components; normative sexual functioning; such topics as sexual deviation, sexual dysfunctions, and types of treatment are also considered. PSYC 3507 - Alcohol/Drugs/Behavior (3) Survey of behavioral pharmacology, mechanism of action for major drugs of abuse and their behavioral effects; survey of routes of administrations and factors that govern or affect drug absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion. Although not required, some knowledge of biological concepts would be useful. PSYC 3508 - Indust/Organizatnl Psyc (3) Application of psychological concepts and methods to phenomena in industrial and organizational settings, with emphasis on personnel selection, classification and evaluation, employee attitudes, morale and motivation, and psychological analysis of the condition of work. PSYC 3509 - Applying Psyc/Community (3) Principles of psychology applied to real-life, community issues; methodologies and techniques, with emphasis upon the behavior analytic approach; descriptions and discussions of actual programs addressing a variety of community issues such as youth violence, traffic safety, and productivity in the workplace. PSYC 3510 - Deviance/Role History (3) Introduction to concept of deviance from prehistory to present; emphasis on vilification and glorification of deviant behavior according to time, place and customs. [G] PSYC 3512 - Health Psychology (3) Survey of the biopsychosocial model of health. Explores psychological influences on health, illness, and responses to those states, as well as the psychological origins and outcomes of health interventions. PREREQUISITE: PSYC 1030. PSYC 3520 - Legal/Forensic Psyc (3) Intersection of psychology and law; role of forensic psychologist in criminal investigation, trial procedures, risk assessments, evaluations. PSYC 3530 - Psychology of Language (3) Introduction to field of psycholinguisitics; theories, research and issues in language comprehension and production. PSYC 3601 - Psychology of Evil (3) Concept of "evil" in human social history and the contemporary world. PSYC 3700 - Peer Advising (3) Discussion of theories, research, and practices related to undergraduate development, retention, success; classroom participation as well as research and practical experience. PREREQUISITE: permission of department. PSYC 3900 - Practicum in General Psyc (3) Meet one hour per week plus attend all classes of a section of PSYC 1030 to assist students. Keep office hours to answer questions and grade student work. PREREQUISITE: permission of department. S/U PSYC 4010 - Behavior Modification (3) Topics are varied and in online class listings. PSYC 4012 - Positive Psychology (3) Focus on strengths and positive experiences as a basis for building productivity. PSYC 4030 - Issues Psychotherapy Rsrch (3) Examination of research evidence pertaining to basic questions about psychotherapy and its effectiveness. Readings include both classic contributions and current research findings. PSYC 4032 - Research Methodology (3) Discussion of advanced topics in methodology. In addition, student completes all phases of a research project, including question formulation, literature review, design, data analysis, and report writing. Research projects evolve from individual student interests. PREREQUISITE: PSYC 3010 and 3020, or permission of the instructor. PSYC 4034 - Children Soc Relationships (3) Examines children's social relationships, particularly peer relationships; social cognitive processing; developmental implications of group status and dyadic friendships; behavioral interactions among peers; impact of reputation on peer group status; gender differences in peer relations; parent management of peer activities; and analyses of conflict and of aggressors and their victims. PREREQUISITE: successful completion of a course in child psychology and permission of instructor. PSYC 4041 - Psychology of Loss and Grief (3) Current models of grief grounded in attachment theory, task conceptualizations, meaning reconstruction and continuing bonds work; death of parents, children, partners, pets. PSYC 4101 - History of Psychology (3) Comprehensive survey and critical analysis of the philosophical and scientific antecedents of contemporary psychology. Enrollment preference granted to seniors in their final semester. PSYC 4102 - Abnormal Child Psych (3) Survey of various disorders, dysfunctions, and conditions of child psychopathology within the context of a developmental framework. Current and historical conceptualizations of child psychopathology, factors contributing to these problems, and related interventions are examined. PREREQUISITE: PSYC 3102 or permission of instructor. PSYC 4305 - Mind/Brain/Intelligence (3) (Same as UNIV 4520). Interdisciplinary studies of cognition, behavior, emotion, intelligence, and brain mechanisms; synthesis of research contributions from cognitive science, neuroscience, artificial intelligence, and philosophy. PSYC 4401 - Intro to Clinical Psychology (3) (3503). Advanced seminar for students considering graduate study in psychology; clinical assessment, diagnosis, and intervention; research in behavioral medicine, forensic, and child clinical psychology. PREREQUISITE: PSYC 3010, 3020 3101, 3102, or permission of instructor. PSYC 4503 - Special Problems in Psyc (1-3) Student, under faculty supervision, may read intensively in specialized area, conduct psychological research and/or, obtain field experience in community institutions where psychological principles are applied. NOTE: PSYC 4503 and PSYC 4504 may be repeated for a combined total of 9 hours credit, no more than 6 hours credit with any one faculty member. PREREQUISITE: permission of the department. (S/U). PSYC 4504 - Directed Research (3) Majors receive first hand research experience under tutorship of individual faculty member. Students may work individually or in small groups depending upon project. Projects conform to set of guidelines available from department. NOTE: PSYC 4503 and PSYC 4504 may be repeated for a combined total of up to 9 hours credit, no more than 6 hours credit with any one faculty member. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. (S/U). PSYC 4505 - Special Prob/Behav Neurosci (3) Specialized reading and research conducted under direction of faculty supervisor and with approval of behavioral neuroscience committee. NOTE: PSYC 4505 and PSYC 4506 may be repeated for a combined total of up to 9 hours credit, no more than 6 hours credit with any one faculty member. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor and declaration of Neuroscience concentration. PSYC 4506 - Direct Rsch Behav Neuro (3) Specialized reading and research conducted under direction of faculty supervisor and with approval of behavioral neuroscience committee. NOTE: PSYC 4505 and PSYC 4506 may be repeated for a combined total of up to 9 hours credit, no more than 6 hours credit with any one faculty member. PREREQUISITE: PSYC 4505 and permission of instructor. (S/U). PSYC 4507 - Psyc Internship (3) Supervised field placement in a department approved site. Includes 30 classroom hours and 120 placement hours. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor, completion of 55 or more credit hours, satisfactory completion of PSYC 3010 and 3020, minimum overall and psychology grade point average of 3.0. (S/U) PSYC 4994 - Senior Thesis (3) Original research conducted under direction of faculty supervisor. For outstanding students who are not participating in Honors Program. (S/U) PSYC 4995 - Honors Sr Thesis/Behav Neuro (3) Original research conducted under direction of faculty supervisor and with approval of behavioral neuroscience committee. PREREQUISITE: admission to Honors Program and permission of behavioral neuroscience advisor. (S/U) PSYC 4996 - Honors Senior Thesis (3) Original research conducted under direction of faculty supervisor, and with approval of Honors Committee. PREREQUISITE: admission to Honors Program,permission of thesis advisor and successful completion of thesis proposal in PSYC 4504. (S/U) PSYC 4997 - Senior Thesis/Behav Neurosci (3) Original research conducted under direction of faculty supervisor and with approval of behavioral neuroscience committee. PREREQUISITE: permission of behavioral neuroscience advisor and successful completion of thesis proposal in PSYC 4506. PSYC 4998 - Sr Thesis/Cognitive Science (3) Original research conducted under direction of faculty supervisor and with approval of cognitive science committee. (S/U) PSYC 4999 - Honors Sr Thesis/Cognitive Sc (3) Original research conducted under direction of faculty supervisor and with approval of cognitive science committee. PREREQUISITE: admission to Honors Program. (S/U) CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .