#http://www.memphis.edu/suapp/strengthening-communities/news.php
News and Press Releases about Strengthening Communities Grants - SUAPP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy About Departments People Resources About the Grant Process About Types of Grants Funding Finding a Partner Application Process Proposal Tips Forms Additional Information Events/Press Releases Home SUAPP Strengthening Communities News and Press Releases about Strengthening Communities Grants Strengthening Communities Initiative Awards 2015 Grants For press release information, contact: Gabrielle Maxey June 1, 2015 - The Strengthening Communities Initiative has awarded its 2015 Capacity Building and Small Grants to support community-based projects that address economic development, education, health, housing, transportation and safety issues. Strengthening Communities is an initiative of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy and the Engaged Scholarship Faculty Committee at the University of Memphis, the Community Foundation of Greater Memphis, United Way of the Mid-South and the Learning by Giving Foundation. Small Grants of $2,500 are awarded to nonprofit organizations for a one-time community development project. Recipients include: Binghampton Development Corporation, serving African refugee parents in the Binghampton neighborhood, for the Blueprint for Success: Parenting Curriculum for Refugee Parents project; Cooperative Memphis for the development of Vance ROCK (Reorganizing Our Community and Kitchens), a community fruit and vegetable stand in South Memphis; Hope House, to create a playground and garden for the Healthy Playscape Environment project at the Hope House Childcare Center; and Shelby County Books from Birth, to establish the Helping Parents Succeed – Creation of a "Raising a Reader" Parent Training in the Orange Mound neighborhood. Capacity Building Grants of $18,500 are awarded to teams, each consisting of a nonprofit community organization and U of M faculty and students, for community-based projects. Recipients include: Caritas Village for the CRuCES (Create Community Engaged Scholarship) project, with faculty partner Diana Ruggiero, assistant professor of Spanish; Friends For Life for the Women's Empowerment Group project, with faculty partner Robin Lennon-Dearing, assistant professor of Social Work; and Mississippi River Corridor – Tennessee for the MORE 2015-2016 Frayser ASD Program Development and Assessment, with faculty partners Leigh Harrell-Williams, assistant professor of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research; and Christian Mueller, associate professor of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research. For more information, visit . About the Grant Process About Types of Grants Funding Finding a Partner Application Process Proposal Tips Forms Additional Information Events/Press Releases Strengthening Communities providing funding to support the development and implementation of innovative neighborhood-based projects HCD Fellowships Learn more about the Housing and Community Development Fellowships for Graduate Students Reports offering an at-a-glance overview of current engaged scholarship efforts Contact SUAPP Main contacts and location information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .