#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/staff/corcoran.php
Lorelei H. Corcoran, Ph.D. - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Staff Corcoran Roberson Podzorski Brand Onstine Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Staff Lorelei H. Corcoran, Ph.D. Lorelei H. Corcoran, Ph.D. Director, Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Professor of Art History, Department of Art Ph.D., University of Chicago, Near Eastern Languages and Civilization, 1988 Address: Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology University of Memphis 200 Art and Communication Bldg. Memphis, TN 38152-3140 E-mail: lcorcorn@memphis.edu Telephone: 901.678.2555 Dr. Corcoran is Professor of Art History and Director of the Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology at the University of Memphis. She is graduate advisor to the M.A. program in Art History with a concentration in Egyptian art and archaeology. RESEARCH INTERESTS: Iconography of the funerary arts of ancient Egypt, specializing in Roman period; ancient Egyptian portraiture; social context of imagery in ancient Egyptian culture; portrait mummies; epigraphy PUBLICATIONS: Monographs: Herakleides. A Portrait Mummy from Roman Egypt, with Marie Svoboda, 2010. Portrait Mummies from Roman Egypt (I-IV Centuries A.D.): with a Catalog of Portrait Mummies in Egyptian Museums, University of Chicago, Oriental Institute, Studies in Ancient Oriental Civilization, No. 56, 1995. Dissertation: Portrait Mummies from Roman Egypt. University of Chicago, 1988. Select Articles and Exhibitions: "The Mummy, Cartonnage Set and Coffin of Irtwirw." In Egyptian Museum Collections around the World, M. Eldamaty and M. Trad, eds., Supreme Council of Antiquities, Cairo, 2002. "Masks." In The Oxford Encyclopedia of Ancient Egypt, D. Redford, ed., Oxford University Press, London and New York, 2001. "A Case for Narrativity: Gilt Stucco Mummy Cover in the Graeco-Roman Museum, Alexandria, inv. 27808." In Gold of Praise: Studies in Ancient Egypt in Honor of Edward F. Wente, Studies in Ancient Oriental Civilization, No. 58, E. Teeter and J.A. Larson, eds., University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1999. Africa's Egypt , an exhibition curated for the Pink Palace Museum, Memphis, TN, 1999. "Mysticism and the Mummy Portraits." In Portraits and Masks: Burial Customs in Roman Egypt, M. Bierbrier, ed., British Museum Press, London, 1997. "Painted Funerary Shroud." In Africa: the Art of a Continent, T. Phillips, ed., Prestel, Munich, 1995. "Evidence for the Survival of Pharaonic Religion in Roman Egypt." In Aufstieg und Niedergang der romischen Welt, II/18, H. Temporini and W. Haase, eds., Walter de Gruyter, Berlin, 1995. "A Cult Function for the So-called Faiyum Portraits?" In Life in a Multi-Cultural Society: Egypt from Cambyses to Constantine and Beyond, Studies in Ancient Oriental Civilization, no. 52, J. Johnson, ed., University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1992. "Exploring the Archaeological Metaphor: The Egypt of Freud's Imagination." In The Annual of Psychoanalysis, no. 19, 1991. Another Egypt: Coptic Christians at Thebes (7th-8th Centuries A.D.), an exhibition curated for the The Oriental Institute Museum, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, 1990-1991. Co-curated with Terry Wilfong. "The Roman Period." In Mummies and Magic: The Funerary Arts of Ancient Egypt, S. D'Auria, P. Lacovara and C. Roehrig, eds., Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, 1988. "Hawara Portrait Mummy no. 4" In Journal of Egyptian Archaeology, 71, 1985. Staff Corcoran Roberson Podzorski Brand Onstine Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .