#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/religion.php
Religion in Society - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Religion in Society Religion in Society These guidelines are designed to serve persons who are interested in the study of religion and who want to work within some type of religious organization. They offer an historical understanding of the place of religion in society as well as an understanding of the social and individual dimensions of religious experience. They also offer an opportunity to study various religious belief systems from an academic perspective. Persons who want to serve in religious organizations may use these guidelines to gain practical skills. Graduates may enter graduate study in religion and receive further preparation for careers in religious organizations, as leaders, administrators, directors of education, counselors, teachers, social workers, or youth directors. Program Summary A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. B. Coordinated Study ( 60 hours) Core Courses – ( 15 hours required) ANTH 4253 Anthropology of Religion JDST 2850 Religions of Abraham: Judaism, Christianity, Islam PHIL 3701 Human and the Divine SOCI 3860 Sociology of Religion UNIV 3581 Faith, Reason, and Imagination Context Courses – (21 hours) – Choose at least one course from each category Religious Perspectives and Society AAAS 4251 African Religions in the Diaspora HIST 3273 Islamic Civilization HIST 3274 Modern Islamic World HIST 3275 History of the Jewish People HIST 4361 History of the Byzantine Empire HIST 4371 Early Middle Ages HIST 4372 The High Middle Ages HIST 4390 Europe in the Age of the Reformation HIST 4882 Civil Rights Movement in the U.S. since 1930 JDST 3601 Judaism JDST 3801 Jewish Thought I JDST 3802 Jewish Thought II JDST 4720 American Jewish Experience PHIL 3721 Oriental Philosophy PHIL 4711 Philosophy of Religion POLS 3102 Religion and Politics Arts &amp; Literature ARTH 4130 Art of the Medieval World ARTH 4143 Art of High Renaissance Italy ARTH 4181 Traditional Arts of Africa, Oceania, and North America CLAS 2481 Mythology ENGL 4461 Bible as Literature JDST 4671 Jewish Literary Texts MUSA 4104 Sacred Music in History and Practice I MUSA 4105 Sacred Music in History and Practice II UNIV 3580 Hebrew and Greek Legacy Individual Development CSED 3302 Child and Adolescent Development PSYC 3101 Psychology of Personality PSYC 3102 Abnormal Psychology PSYC 3103 Child Psychology PSYC 3104 Adult Psychology PSYC 3106 Social Psychology SOCI 3701 Individual and Society Individual in Society ANTH 3511 Culture, Kin and Family CJUS 3540 Criminology HIST 4851 History of Women in America HIST 4881 African-American History PHIL 3411 Contemporary Moral Problems SOCI 3422 Ethnic Minorities SOCI 3432 Sociology of Gender SOCI 3831 Marriage and Family SOCI 4460 Black and White Women in the South SOCI 4541 Sociology of Aging SOCI 4923 Social Institutions and the Life Cycle Urban Society ANTH 4411 Urban Anthropology ANTH 4412 Neighborhood Development HIST 4871 United States Urban History SOCI 4442 Sociology of Poverty SOCI 4631 Cities in Change UNIV 3527 Making the Humane City (6 hours) Skills for Service – 18 hours – (Choose at least one course from each category) Administrative Skills ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting I MIS 2749 Foundation/Information Systems MGMT 3110 Organization and Management MKTG 3010 Principles of Marketing PADM 3601 Public Administration PADM 4226 Introduction to Nonprofit Organizations SOCI 3311 Social Statistics Counseling COUN 4611 Introduction to Counseling COUN 4781 Strategies for Crisis Intervention COUN 4783 Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services* *Students may want to take PSYC 3507 - Alcohol, Drugs and Behavior concurrently Education COUN 4621 Human Interactions EDPR 2111 Development Across the Life Span EDPR 3302 Child and Adolescent Development LEAD 3350 The Adult Learner SLS 3305 Leisure and Recreation Program Development SLS 3905 Leisure and Recreation for People with Disabilities Communication COMM 4011 Communication in Organizations COMM 4341 Interpersonal Communication COMM 4342 Small Group Communication COMM 4373 Interracial Communication COMM 4375 Intercultural Communication ENGL 3601 Technical and Professional Writing ENGL 3604 Persuasive Writing Applied and Experiential Learning or Internship (3 hours) UNIV 4110 Internship or UNIV 3900 Advanced Experiential Learning (For prior learning, credit may be awarded for learning relevant to the major area of study based on assessment of an Experiential Learning portfolio that describes and documents the learning experiences. ) C . Thematic Studies (6 hours) D. Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project (completed during the final semester) E. Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .