#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT4260001.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MGMT - 4260 - 001 Employee Staffing & Development Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Last updated: 8 /7/2015 Course Instructor s : Daniel Detwiler Kathy Ma Phone: (910)297 - 3275 (901)730 - 6637 Office: (901)678 - 4531 (901)678 - 4531 E - mail: djdtwler@memphis.edu qma@memphis.edu Office: FCBE 258 FCBE 258 Office Hours: Guaranteed by appointment only, though instructors can frequently be found in the ir office listed below . Class Times: TTh 2:40 4:05PM; FCB 265 Course Overview This course offers an e xamination of the administration of compensation and performance management systems; use of job descriptions, job analysis, and job evaluation methods; employee benefits administration; glob al issues in compensation and p e r formance management. Prerequisites for this course are as follows : MGMT 3110, 3215, 3510. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Throughout this course we will be referring to and discussing contemporary theories , research and practice in the recruitment, selection and training/development of employees from Herbert th Ed.) ISBN: 9780077862411. Location of Course Materials : All materials for this course can be found within the required text (listed above) or within e - courseware. Discussion board, relevant videos, and supplementary readings can all be found within our course shell through your MyMemphis portal. If you have any issues locating, downloading, printing or otherwise accessing any materials, please see one of the instructors immediately. Waiting until the end of the semester to report any issues will not be deemed a vali d reason for altering or otherwise influencing any components of your final grade . Course Objectives : This is going to be a fun semester, and whether you are interested in HR management or just general management, we think you will find this material ver y relevant. This aspect of HR management is particularly dynamic due to the impact of technology and the legal environment. We hope to engage students as much as possible and pass along our enthusiasm for this ma terial most c oncerned about student learning! This semester we wi of employee staffing and development (our will be using regularly, for this area of study, is talent management. Specifically, after completing this course students who have worked hard and given their best effort should: 1. Have a solid understanding of the external and legal environment affecting staffing decisions --- organizations acquiring TALENT 2. Understand the str ategic implications of individual recruitment and selection decisions 3. Be able to develop a recruiting plan 4. Be able to evaluate, improve, and/or design effective selection systems 5. Have improved skills in implementing selection tools (writing job descript ions, employee interviewing, examining various selection techniques, understanding employment tests, etc.) 6. Have a broad understanding of the training process with particular emphasis on systematic employee development and career management. 7. Have an impro ved career focu s and be more prepared to be a target of effective staffing practices (employee candidate for professional jobs) Generally, we want you to have a good unders of Employee Staffing and Development --- Talent Management; the ability to think a bit strategically and critically about recruiting, hiring, retaining, and developing the best talent for your organization now and in the future; skills that will help you pu rsue a variety of career options, including HR generalist, HR specialist in the area of employment or talent management, or general manager with good skills in this area and an understanding of the legal issues involve d in these decisions. Finally, we want to help you begin to establis h a pattern of future thinking and an attitude and eye toward continuous professional development throughout your career. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree Although students are likely not working through all the degrees listed, we want to include the requirements for all that we offer here at the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. In the chance that you may be interested in furthering your education (here or elsewhere), we would like to offer you a realistic preview of the requirements of some of those degrees as they are listed below (Please note, degree requirements are not identical across all universities. In order to collect more relevant information, you should consult the department administ rators, counselors and additional online resources maintained by the institution(s) you would like to attend) : BBA pdf BBA ACCT comes/BBADegreeAccountancyLearni ngOutcomes.pdf MBA pdf EMBA s.pdf IMBA s.pdf MS ACCT mes.pdf MA ECON mes.pdf MSBA s.pdf PhD omes. pdf Course Methodology Although this is a traditional brick and mortar class, students will be expected to be familiar with the e - courseware system and related functions such as posting and replying within discussion boards, turning in material via D ropbox, and taking online quizzes and other learning assessments. We expect you to conduct yourselves in a professional and respectful manner in the class, in the online environment, on dis cussion boards, in emails, and through out all class - related communications. This includes (but is not limited to) , arriving to class on time and staying for the duration, contributing to class discussions and group activities, opinions and ideas, refraining from usi ng cellular devices or accessing social media during class time, and displaying professional conduct when interacting with each other (both face - to - face and in a virtual environment). Students are also expected to adhere to the University of Memphis Studen t Code of Rights and Responsibilities as outlined herein : Student's Expectations: In our role as your instructors, there are certain things you can expect from us as well, including: A well organized and engaging learning experience, response to emails within two (2) business days, and feedback on all work submitted within 5 - 7 calendar days. The teacher - student relationsh ip is a reciprocal one, wherein everyone is afforded the same respect as he/she affords others . Grading and Evaluation Criteria The following is a comprehensive list of all the tasks students will be evaluated on, including the format in which they will be completed, as well as any additional components of this course that . The final grade will be calculated as a percentage of the total points earned out of the total points possible from the total listed below : Assignment Format (# of assignments ; approximate date) Individual Assignment Value Total Assignment Value Total Value Toward Final Grade Class Participation All formats ( Infinite , Duration of semester) 50 50 5% Individual Article Presentation In - class ( 2 ; random) 25 50 5% Exam In - class ( 2 ; 10/8 & 12/8) 100 200 20% Online Quiz E - courseware ( 2 ; Weekends 3 & 9 ) 50 100 10% Discussion board E - courseware ( 4 ; see schedule) 50 200 20% Professional Development Exercise E - courseware ( 2 ; 9/22 & 11/17) 50 100 10% Group Activity E - courseware ( 1 ; 12/1) 200 200 20% Group Evaluation E - courseware ( 1 ; 12/1) 100 100 10% Final Course Grades The following metric will be sued when inputting final grades. You should note, your score that appears in e - courseware may not reflect your final score entered into the campus grading system. Also, as per campus policy, final grades may only be released e arly to those students who complete their SETEs. 95 and above A + 74 77 C + 91 94 A 70 73 C + 88 90 A - 66 69 C - 84 87 B + 62 65 D + 81 83 B 58 61 D + 78 80 B - Below 58% F + Course Topics Course material is divided into six modules: (1) Introduction to talent management -- Employee staffing & development and the legal environment of employment; (2) Understanding your talent needs; (3) Recruiting talent; (4) The talent selection process measuring and collecting information on external and internal candidates; (5) Employee development and career management focus on internal talent; and (6) The final decision. List of Formal Assessed Activities Class Participation As noted above, class participation will be weighted 5% toward your final grade. Though this grade may seem arbitrary and subjective, we can assure you, it is most certainly contingent upon - class an d online. Those who fail to come to class can obviously not participate in our discussions. The tragedy with this is that he/she thereby deprives the other students of a potentially groundbreaking new perspective of the discipline and subsequently inhibits important to achieve maximum learning potential. In addition to attendance, students are also expected to actively contribute their ideas and external findings within the classroom setting. The next section will cover two such opportunities in greater detail. Individual Article Presentations Each week, we will be covering at least one new topic in the field of staffing and talent management. In addition to what we cover in lecture and read in our textbook, there are a multitude of such issues being discussed in the local and national news media nearly every day. As such, at the beginning of each class, instructors will choose between three and five students at random to present a current (no more t han two months old) news article relevant to the topic of that day or the day before. For example, during week 10, we discuss decision making. In order to be prepared for Tuesday (10/27) you must have found an article that is relevant to either internal se lection or decision making. However, to be ready for Thursday (10/29), your article must pertain to decision making only. On Tuesday (9/8), you should have an article related to the legal environment or planning, but Thursday (9/10) you need an article rel evant to job analysis or planning. I make this particular comparison so that you may better prepare for each situation as well as keeping you from being caught off - guard with an article that is not relevant to something we have recently discussed, or at th e very least, something we will be discuss ing shortly. Everyone will have an opportunity to present once before the midterm and once before the final. Once you have gone before the midterm, you wil l not need to presen t again until after the midterm and lik present again until the second half). That said, you are encouraged to volunteer, but know that those who sit closest to the front of the classroom will likely be chosen fi rst. Please note: Coordination of volunteering efforts is most certainly allowed and encouraged. That said, you cannot volunteer for someone else or have someone else be a substitute for you. Participation will be tracked and noted. Once it gets down to the last few, you will be called on to present. If If you are c alled and you do not have one, you have two options: 1) You can take a zero for the assignment for that instructor (you will be called upon once by each instructor) or 2) You can email the instructor (prior to the next class) and ask to be called upon the following day for 90% credit. Exams One way in which we assess learning throughout the semester is by testing each student on s ubject matter recall as well as his/her ability to conceptually apply this knowledge to address issues dealing with the workplace. Throughout the course of this semester you will be assessed via two in - class examinations consisting of true/false, multiple choice, and essay items. Each exam is worth 100 points (for a combined total of 20% toward the final grade ) and may cont ain bonus items (at the discretion of the instructor). The first of these exams ( midterm ) will be administered on Thursday, October 8 th , 2015 . If you know that you will not be able to make this exam date and time, it is up to you to contact the proctoring instructor no less than 48 hours in advance so that you may take a modified version of the exam at another date, time, and location (most likely in the PhD office). The final exam will be held on Tuesday, December 8 th , 2015 from 1:00PM 3:00PM . The final exam will not be comprehensive, it will only pertain to material covered following the midterm (chapters 8 14). If you know you will not be able to make the final exam date and time, you must notify both of the instructors no later than Friday, December 4 th , 2015 so that we may schedule an earlier time and location for you to take the final exam. [Please note: Rescheduling will not be permitted for the following excuses: Sporting events, personal vacations, sick pets, broke down cars, music venues (unless s someone really good), a hot date your roommate set you up with , etc. etc. etc.] Failure to adhere to either of these guidelines will result in the student receiving a zero for that particular exam. NO EXCEPTIONS! Online Quizzes In addition to the i n - class exams , students will also be instructed to take two online quizzes via e - courseware. Each of the two quizzes will be worth 50 points and account for a combined total of 10% of the final grade. Quizzes will be available for the entire weekend they are available starting at 5:00PM on Friday and lasting until 5:00PM Sunday. You will be given a ten - minute time limit to complete each quiz once you begin. Each quiz will consist of ten multiple choice questions covering the topics related to previously presented lectures. The first quiz will be available from 5:00PM Friday (9/11) until Sunday (9/13) and will cover material from chapters 1 4. The second quiz will be available from 5:00PM Friday (10/23) until 5:00PM Sunday (10/25) and will cover chapters 8 10. Discussion Board To increase the flow of ideas and the transmission of innovative ways of thinking, we will also be asking students to contribute to four discussion board forums located on E - cou rseware. Discussion board topics will cover a wide array of topics from the text, lecture , or personal life and are meant to encourage and facilitate collaboration among students. In order to stress the importance as this skill in the contemporary workplac e, contribution and participation in each of the discussion board forums will be worth 50 points for a combined total of 20% of your final grade. In order to receive full credit for discussion board assignments, students must fully address all questions an d topics discussed in the theme and they must also critique the posts of g or disagreeing is NOT sufficient. You must bring something of substance and value to the conversation. some boring article regurgitated from the internet. Discussion boards will be open from the Monday they are active to the following Friday (see schedule below for exact dates). Failure to reply or post by the deadlines posted will not be excused. Professional Development Exercise Professional development exercises are designed to increase your business acumen as well as your marketability to prospective employers upon graduation. We have designed two such exercises which will be discussed in greater detail closer to their due dates . Preceding each of these exercises, we will be holding an exercise workshop day to better prepare each of you for the upcoming assignment . The first exercise will be due Tuesday, September 22 nd no later than class time. Exercises will be turned in individ ually to a designated folder in Dropbox . Each student is allowed only submission and any additional submissions will be discarded. These exercises are designed to help in a practical and applied manner for later career success. As such, each exercise will be worth 50 points for a combined total of 10% of your final grade. Group Activity Each student will be divided into teams of 4 to 5 students. Once groups have been formed, someone from each team will need to email both instructors their designated team number and member roster. The goals of this project are to provide you all with pract ical experience on a simulated human resource management consulting team and to build your competence in preparing a written employee staffing and development plan for a business organization. Your team can choose any job in any type of business organizati on. It may be a job that you or someone you know currently holds or has held in the past. Choose the job and the organization the end of the fourth week of cla ss. It is not necessary that your team actually involves any particular organization in this project. Sufficient information can be via the internet, library, and the best way to start this project is to locate a comprehensive description of the target job (via O*Net or some other resource). You may therefor need to interview a person currently holding or supervising the target job. For the target job, each team must submit a written report that contains the following: (a) Job analysis Describe the tasks, duties, and responsibilities required for the job as well as the KSAOs required to perform the job effectively. How well does the job description indicate what an employee holding the job actually does while on the job? How well does the description capture the necessary KSAOs? Are all the KSAOs listed necessary to perform the job? In addition, you should also discuss any relevant legal issues with respect to staffi ng this position. (b) Selection plan Develop an employee selection plan that describes how and when each of the necessary KSAOs for the job will be assessed during the selection process. You must include a description of how individuals will be recruited f or the target job, the content of this recruitment information and any relevant legal issues with respect to recruiting. You must also include a description of how individuals will be selected for the target job, including which selection tools will be use d, how selection tools, and any relevant legal issues with respect to selection. For these descriptions, you must justify your responses by addressing issues such as reliabilit y, validity, cost, potential reactions, and legal implications. It may be the case that your target organization already has recruiting and selection systems in place. If so, your task is to critique them and suggest ways in which they can be improved. If the target organization does not already have a recruiting and selection system in place, your task is to design them based on current theory, research and practice in employee staffing. The written report must be typed, single - spaced and no longer than 8 single - sided pages. The report may include tables and figures within the 8 - page limit. Please include each team electronically via the Dropbox folder create d for this project. Only one submission will be accepted and any additional submissions will be immediately discarded . Team projects will be graded on the following criteria: clarity and completeness, organization, accuracy, spelling/grammar/punctuation, and professionalism. Each team member receives the same overall group score for the project itself. The due date for t his project is class time Tuesday, December 1 st , 2015 . This portion of the project will account for 200 points or 20% of your final grade. Late submissions will be deducted 20 points for every 24 hours past the due date. Class time will be devoted to group work, but the vast majority will need to be completed outside of class. Group Evaluations final product, each member will assess (and be assessed by) every other member. Although teams in the real wor ld typically share rewards, we understand how frustrating it can be to have others take credit for labor that they m ay not have contributed to. To compensate , another 100 points (or 10% of your final grade) will be determined via peer evaluations of your efforts. The criteria and subsequent template for these evaluations, however, will be determined and developed by group consensus and turned into the instructors for approval prior to the end of the fourth week of class. This metho d has been chosen for two reasons 1) To ensure each group member is aware of how he/she will be evaluated and to hold each group member accountable for his/her efforts and 2) because members may have specialties that exclude them from certain criteria (i.e . someone does more of the research because he/she is not a great writer.). One universal criteria for all evaluations is that they must have a space for feedback following each rating. In addition, feedback must be given for each rated item when evaluatin g member performance. Individual evaluations of peer performance for each group member is due no later than 11:59PM Tuesday, December 1 st , 2015 . For each evaluation not completed and turned in by the due date, the student will lose 10 points from his/her o wn evaluation score. Schedule of Activities Topics Readings and Activities Week 1 (8/25 & 8/27 ) Introductions/ Nature of Staffing C ourse Syllabus and Online R esource s & Chapter 1 Week 2 (9/1 & 9/3 ) Legal Environment Chapter 2/ Discussion Board /Project Descriptions Week 3 (9/8 & 9/1 0 ) Planning & Job Analysis Chapter s 3 & 4 Week 4 (9/1 5 & 9/1 7 ) Ex ternal Recruitment Chapter 5/Review of Weekend Quiz/ Discussion Board / In - class w orkshop Week 5 (9/22 & 9/24 ) Internal Recruitment Chapter 6 / Professional Development Exercise: 1 due (9/22) / Group Project Workday Week 6 (9/29 & 10 / 1 ) Measurement Chapter 7 /Discuss Exercise 1 Week 7 (10/6 & 10/8 ) Midterm Review /Group Project /Midterm Review Materials Posted to E - c ourseware Week 8 (10/15 only ) External Selection I Chapter 8 /Review of Midterm Items Week 9 (10/20 & 10/22 ) External Selection II/ Internal Selection Chapter s 9 & 10/ Discussion Board Week 10 (10/2 7 & 10/29 ) Decision Making Chapter 11/ Review of We ekend Quiz Week 11 (11/3 & 11/5 ) The Final Match Chapter 12 / Discussion Board Week 12 (11/10 & 11/12 ) Staffing System Management Chapter 13/In - class workshop Week 13 (11/17 & 11/ 19 ) Retention Management Chapter 14/ Professional Development Exercise: 2 due (11/17) Week 14 ( 11/24 ) Group Projects Discuss Exercise 2/Group Workshop Day Week 15 (12/1 & 12/3) Group Projects & Final Review P rojects and Peer evaluations (due 12/1 via Dropbox ) / Final Review/ Study Day (12/3) December 8, 2015 1:00 3:00PM Final Exam Grades can be viewed earlier only by completing SETEs for both instructors. Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . our final exam will be held Tuesday, December 8 th beginning at 1:00PM and ending at 3:00PM . If you know you will not be able to make the final exam date and time, you must notify both of the instructors no later than Friday, December 4 th , 2015 so that we may schedule an earlier time and location for you to take the final exam. *Please note, this means that you will be taking the exam before the time scheduled by the registrar. Anyone who shows up late to the final exam will not be permitted to disrupt other students by coming in after the 1:00 deadline. DO NOT knock on the door or otherwise attempt to gain entry after 1:00PM on December 8 th . If you miss the exam, you will NOT be given an opportunity to take the final exam at a later date than that scheduled by the registrar. Course Policies E - MAIL: document . When emailing either Mr. Detwiler or Ms. Ma, pleas e be sure to follow these rules: 1. In the subject line, please put our course prefix and section number (MGMT4260 - 001) 2. Begin each email with the appropriate salutation and last name of the instructor you are addressing (e.g. Ms. Ma or Mr. Detwiler) as we will certainly do the same when replying. 3. Ask questions and/or express your concerns in a clear and concise manner. Do not provide details that are not pertinent or relevant to the topic at hand (we do not need to know a ll of your personal details). 4. When emailing one of your instructors, please CC the other instructor as well so that both are up - to - date regarding any issues that may need to be addressed. Attendance: Attendance is not mandatory, however, as described earl ier, your final score will be influenced based on your participation Academic Integrity: Make - up exams and late written assignments are not accepted unless we are informed of a valid medical or family emergency prior to exam or other due dates. Finally, academic dishonesty will not be tolerated AT ALL. Any and all suspicious or questionable be havior will be addressed swiftly in accordance with University policy. We will be using Turnitin authentication software to verify the originality of any and all materials handed in either in hard copy form or via D ropbox . If you have information which mus t be included from outside sources , be sure you CORRECTLY cite your source s in MLA format and include a reference page where materials can be located and checked. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance