#http://www.memphis.edu/herff/future/grad_fellowships.php
Herff Graduate Fellowships - Herff Home - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Herff College of Engineering Future Students Current Students Alumni Research Departments About Future Students Visit Herff Undergraduate Graduate Home Herff Home Future Students Herff Graduate Fellowships Herff Graduate Fellowships DESCRIPTION: The Herff Fellowship provides financial support to outstanding graduate students in the Herff College of Engineering to support their studies toward the MS or PhD degree. MS students are supported for a maximum of 3 semesters, and PhD students for a maximum of 5 semesters (excluding summers). The annual stipend typically ranges between $17,000 and $20,000 per academic year plus tuition. Applications are reviewed by a committee consisting of the graduate coordinators from the eligible departments within the college and one non-Herff College member. Awards are granted to highly qualified applicants consistent with Herff College goals. Graduate Herff Fellowship Application Instructions Download application here. DEADLINE: Applications are to be emailed to herffgradfellowapps@memphis.edu or mailed to the Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies, Herff College of Engineering, Engineering Administration 202B , University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152 and received no later than March 1st to be considered for the following academic year. If March 1st falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the deadline will be extended to the following Monday. The notification process will begin in April or earlier. EXPECTATIONS : Candidates should define their research interests and identify their potential faculty advisor when applying for a Fellowship. International recipients must be present on campus two weeks before the start of classes to finalize the award. Domestic recipients must be present on campus one week before the start of classes to finalize the award. Recipients who miss these deadlines may forfeit the award for that semester and possibly the academic year. Specific duties of the student will be assigned by the Department Chairs in consultation with Herff College Administration and may include tutoring engineering students or laboratory instruction. ELIGIBILITY: Eligible applicants include: Bachelors degree graduates intending to pursue graduate studies, Masters degree graduates (or candidates), and current PhD candidates from accredited engineering programs. LETTERS OF RECOMMENDATION : Letters of recommendation are to be submitted using the Educational Testing Service (ETS) Personal Potential Index (PPI) and sent to Apply for Graduate Admissions . CRITERIA FOR AWARDING FELLOWSHIPS The candidate must: Be admitted to the graduate program by the Graduate School and the College of Engineering, and/or the appropriate Engineering Department; Possess appropriate verbal and written communication skills; Demonstrate potential for success in the engineering profession through past honors/awards, leadership, publications and professional experience(s). Identify a major faculty advisor and research interest for their graduate studies. Frances Marie Dean Fellowship DESCRIPTION : This fellowship is awarded to deserving and qualified graduate students in the Herff College of Engineering, with those pursuing doctoral degrees given preference. Recipients may receive the award, in the amount up to $10,000/year, for a maximum of three years. DEADLINE : Applications must be postmarked by March 1st and sent to the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, the Herff College of Engineering, Engineering Administration 202, The University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152. Decisions will be determined early in May. ( Download application ) ELIGIBILITY : Applicants must be admitted as full-time MS or PhD graduate students in the Herff College of Engineering. Under-represented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. CRITERIA FOR AWARDING FELLOWSHIPS The candidate must: Meet all requirements for admission into the Herff College of Engineering Have and maintain a GPA of no less than 3.25 Possess excellent verbal and written communication skills Post-Doctoral Fellowships DEADLINE : Not accepting applications at this time. JOB SUMMARY : Will perform post-doctoral research related to areas in civil, electrical, or mechanical engineering. Applicant should have a faculty sponsor in the Herff College of Engineering with whom he/she plans to work. Minimum Qualifications: Ph.D. degree in civil, electrical, or mechanical engineering. PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: Should have the capabilities to design and perform experimental plans, to understand statistical analysis procedures, to analyze and interpret data, to oversee lab procedures and lab personnel/students, to prepare data, write reports/articles for technical publications and to assist in proposal development. Should have sufficient interpersonal skills in dealing with students (graduate and undergraduate), co-workers, alumni, clients, university personnel and other related groups. Should have excellent computer skills. SPECIAL CONDITIONS : Position is funded for one year with possible extension for an additional year. Applicant should have a faculty sponsor in the Herff College of Engineering with whom he/she plans to work. The sponsor will be required to summarize the proposed research plans and attach that to the application. SALARY : Commensurate with education and experience, up to $42,000/year. Screening of applicants for the two postdoctoral positions will begin on TBD and may continue until the position is filled. Starting date for these positions is TBD. The University of Memphis is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Future Students Visit Herff Undergraduate Graduate Visit Herff See what Herff has to offer YOU! Give to Herff Shape the future of engineering today! Herff Faculty &amp; Staff Herff Faculty &amp; Staff E-Day E-Day Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .