#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/bus/econ.php
ECON Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning ECON Courses ECONOMICS (ECON) NOTE: Students taking Business courses will be charged an additional $35 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ECON 6760–69. Special Topics in Economics. (1-3). Topics vary; may be repeated when topics change. PREREQUISITE: Permission of department chair. ECON 7940-49–8940-49. Special Topics in Economics. (1-3). Special areas of economics not otherwise included in the curriculum. Consult the online class listings. ECON 6810 - Quant Economic Analysis (3) Introduction to the application of mathematical tools in business and economics; review of matrix algebra, differential and integral calculus; optimization with and without constraints; comparative statistics. ECON 7100 - Econ for Global Executive (3) Essential economic theory and its application to business and economic issues. Consumer behavior, managerial economics and strategy, market structure in a global context. ECON 7120 - Adv Quant Econ Analysis (3) Mathematical methods of economic dynamics; difference and differential equations; dynamic stability; dynamic programming; optimal control theory; applications to saving, investment, portfolio choice, labor supply, and asset pricing. ECON 7125 - Appl Stat Mthds for Bus & Econ (3) Probability and statistical techniques used in economics, finance, accounting, and management science. ECON 7126 - Economic Forecasting (3) Statistical models for forecasting and measuring risk, growth, cyclical and seasonal patterns in business, and economic time series. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7100 or permission of instructor. ECON 7130 - Industrial Organization (3) How different types of markets work; nature of the firm; monopoly; oligopoly; repeated games and collusion; monopolistic competition and product differentiation; entry, accomodation and exit. May also cover topics such as research and development, advertising, consumer search, among others. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7310-8310 or permission of instructor. ECON 7170 - Intnl Trade & Investmts (3) Introduction to trade theory and international macroeconomics. Determinants of trade flows, gains from trade and the distributional effects, optimal policy intervention. Basic international macroeconomics, including balance of payments, capital flows and exchange rate determination. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7100 or permission of instructor. ECON 7175 - Intnl Trade Theory/Pol (3) Advanced treatment of the theory of international trade; the theory of comparative advantage, the Hecksher-Ohlin model, specific factors, returns to scale and product life-cycle hypotheses; applications of tariffs and commercial policies, international factor movements, and selected topics in international economic development. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7310-8310 or permission of instructor. ECON 7176 - Intnl Monetary Thry/Pol (3) Advanced treatment of open economy macroeconomics: determination of internal and external balance; balance of payments accounting; models of balance of payments adjustment, foreign exchange rate determination, and international capital flows; stabilization mechanisms and policies. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7320-8320 or permission of instructor. ECON 7210 - Labor Economics (3) Use of theory and statistical techniques to analyze various aspects of labor markets, including labor demand and supply, human capital, the wage structure, unemployment and discrimination. ECON 7300 - Econ Theory & Decisions (3) Basic exposition of decision-making theories of consumers and firms under different market structures and informational settings. PREREQUISITES: ECON 6810 and 7010 or equivalents of both. ECON 7310 - Adv Microeconomics I (3) A more advanced study of consumer preferences, competative demand, producer theory; welfare economics, general equilibrium and basic cooperative game theory. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or permission of instructor ECON 7313 - Econ Risk & Uncertainty (3) Expected utility theory, criticisms and alternatives; stochastic dominance; risk aversion and prudence; log-supermodularity; multiple risks; comparative statics of choice under uncertainty; applications to insurance, saving, portfolio choice, labor supply, investment, and asset pricing. ECON 7320 - Adv Macroeconomics I (3) Microeconomic foundations of macroeconomic models; general equilibriums, overlapping generations, neoclassical growth and investment theory. Introduction to optimal control and dynamic programming. ECON 7322 - Monetary Theory & Pol (3) Role of money in the macroeconomy: includes theory of financial structure, money creation and monetary control, theory of money demand; general equilibrium financial models: static analysis, short-run dynamics, monetary growth; rules versus discretion debate: optimal monetary policy, historical conduct of monetary policy. PREREQUISITE: ECON 3320, 7300, or 7320-8320, or permission of instructor. ECON 7710 - Health Care Economics (3) Applies basic economic concepts to analyze health care market and evaluate health policies; including distinctive economic characteristics of health, health care industry, and health care professionals; American system of health care; current health care policy issues such as health care reform, managed care, and manpower planning. PREREQUISITES: ECON 7100 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. ECON 7711 - Appl Health Care Econ (3) Uses economic theories and related methodologies to illuminate an array of health and health care issues. Evaluates theoretical and empirical problems in health and medical care. Covers the structure, conduct, and performance of markets for physicians, hospitals, pharmaceuticals, and long-term care. Covers health and health care policies of the US (local, state, federal) and select other countries. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7710 or permission of instructor. ECON 7712 - Pharmaceutical Econ (3) Comprehensive treatment of classic and emerging literature on the methodology and applications of industrial organization and resource-based theories in pharmaceutical and related health and medical care technology industries (e.g., medical devices, biotechnologies,?) in the global context. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or equivalent or permission of instructor. ECON 7715 - Global Healthcare Economics (3) Applies basic economic concepts toward understanding market economics, regulatory apparatus, and other strategic complexities in the biomedical industry and related markets; analysis of global healthcare issues and systems. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7100 or permission of instructor. ECON 7720 - Econ Public Sector (3) Study of government?s role in the economy, both in theory and in practice. Production and financing of public goods, taxation, advantages and disadvantages of federalism, externalities, government programs and their effects. Emphasis on current problems and policy decisions. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or permission of instructor. ECON 7810 - Econometrics I (3) Classical multivariate regression analysis and statistical inference under ideal and non-ideal conditions; theoretical foundations with emphasis on empirical implementation; estimation of models with categorical data, non-linearity, simple dynamics, or panel data. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7125-8125 or permission of instructor. ECON 7811 - Econometrics II (3) Estimation and statistical inference with a focus on microeconometric techniques; panel data; instrumental variables and simultaneous equations models; estimation of treatment effects; binomial and multinomial choice models; censored data and sample selectivity; regression discontinuity design; quantile regression. ECON 7901 - Teaching Practicum (1-6) Practical demonstrations of and experience in the art of teaching economics topics. Required of all PhD students and recommended for all graduate assistants. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ECON 7910 - Prob In Economics (1-6) Directed independent reading and research in an area selected by the student with the approval of the supervising faculty member and Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ECON 7996 - Thesis (3-6) Independent research for the master's degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ECON 8120 - Adv Quant Econ Analysis (3) Mathematical methods of economic dynamics; difference and differential equations; dynamic stability; dynamic programming; optimal control theory; applications to saving, investment, portfolio choice, labor supply, and asset pricing. ECON 8125 - Appl Stat Mthds for Bus & Econ (3) Probability and statistical techniques used in economics, finance, accounting, and management science. ECON 8126 - Economic Forecasting (3) Statistical models for forecasting and measuring risk, growth, cyclical and seasonal patterns in business, and economic time series. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7100 or permission of instructor. ECON 8130 - Industrial Organization (3) How different types of markets work; nature of the firm; monopoly; oligopoly; repeated games and collusion; monopolistic competition and product differentiation; entry, accomodation and exit. May also cover topics such as research and development, advertising, consumer search, among others. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7310-8310 or permission of instructor. ECON 8175 - Intnl Trade Theory/Pol (3) Advanced treatment of the theory of international trade; the theory of comparative advantage, the Hecksher-Ohlin model, specific factors, returns to scale and product life-cycle hypotheses; applications of tariffs and commercial policies, international factor movements, and selected topics in international economic development. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7310-8310 or permission of instructor. ECON 8176 - Intnl Monetary Thry/Pol (3) Advanced treatment of open economy macroeconomics: determination of internal and external balance; balance of payments accounting; models of balance of payments adjustment, foreign exchange rate determination, and international capital flows; stabilization mechanisms and policies. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7320-8320 or permission of instructor. ECON 8210 - Labor Economics (3) Use of theory and statistical techniques to analyze various aspects of labor markets, including labor demand and supply, human capital, the wage structure, unemployment and discrimination. ECON 8310 - Adv Microeconomics I (3) A more advanced study of consumer preferences, competative demand, producer theory; welfare economics, general equilibrium and basic cooperative game theory. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or permission of instructor ECON 8311 - Adv Microecon II (3) Advanced microeconomic applications of game theory; static and dynamic games of complete information; Bayesian games; repeated games; introduction to mechanism design. Application include: oligopoly, basic auctions, adverse selection, moral hazard, among others. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or permission of instructor. ECON 8313 - Econ Risk & Uncertainty (3) Expected utility theory, criticisms and alternatives; stochastic dominance; risk aversion and prudence; log-supermodularity; multiple risks; comparative statics of choice under uncertainty; applications to insurance, saving, portfolio choice, labor supply, investment, and asset pricing. ECON 8320 - Adv Macroeconomics I (3) Microeconomic foundations of macroeconomic models; general equilibriums, overlapping generations, neoclassical growth and investment theory. Introduction to optimal control and dynamic programming. ECON 8321 - Adv Macroecon II (3) Introduction to practical stochastic dynamic programming. Topics covered include: consumption and saving; models of price determination; monetary policy, money and liquidity; bank runs; asset pricing; equilibrium search and matching models. ECON 8322 - Monetary Theory & Pol (3) Role of money in the macroeconomy: includes theory of financial structure, money creation and monetary control, theory of money demand; general equilibrium financial models: static analysis, short-run dynamics, monetary growth; rules versus discretion debate: optimal monetary policy, historical conduct of monetary policy. PREREQUISITE: ECON 3320, 7300, or 7320-8320, or permission of instructor. ECON 8710 - Health Care Economics (3) Applies basic economic concepts to analyze health care market and evaluate health policies; including distinctive economic characteristics of health, health care industry, and health care professionals; American system of health care; current health care policy issues such as health care reform, managed care, and manpower planning. PREREQUISITES: ECON 7100 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. ECON 8711 - Appl Health Care Econ (3) Uses economic theories and related methodologies to illuminate an array of health and health care issues. Evaluates theoretical and empirical problems in health and medical care. Covers the structure, conduct, and performance of markets for physicians, hospitals, pharmaceuticals, and long-term care. Covers health and health care policies of the US (local, state, federal) and select other countries. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7710 or permission of instructor. ECON 8712 - Pharmaceutical Econ (3) Comprehensive treatment of classic and emerging literature on the methodology and applications of industrial organization and resource-based theories in pharmaceutical and related health and medical care technology industries (e.g., medical devices, biotechnologies,?) in the global context. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or equivalent or permission of instructor. ECON 8720 - Econ Public Sector (3) Study of government?s role in the economy, both in theory and in practice. Production and financing of public goods, taxation, advantages and disadvantages of federalism, externalities, government programs and their effects. Emphasis on current problems and policy decisions. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7300 or permission of instructor. ECON 8810 - Econometrics I (3) Classical multivariate regression analysis and statistical inference under ideal and non-ideal conditions; theoretical foundations with emphasis on empirical implementation; estimation of models with categorical data, non-linearity, simple dynamics, or panel data. PREREQUISITE: ECON 7125-8125 or permission of instructor. ECON 8811 - Econometrics II (3) Estimation and statistical inference with a focus on microeconometric techniques; panel data; instrumental variables and simultaneous equations models; estimation of treatment effects; binomial and multinomial choice models; censored data and sample selectivity; regression discontinuity design; quantile regression. ECON 8812 - Econometrics III (3) Analysis and modeling of economic and financial time series with applications. ARIMA and ARCH processes; stationarity, causality and cointegration; vector autoregression, structural model and equilibrium correction models.PREREQUISITE: ECON 7810. ECON 8901 - Teaching Practicum (1-6) Practical demonstrations of and experience in the art of teaching economics topics. Required of all PhD students and recommended for all graduate assistants. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ECON 8910 - Prob In Economics (1-6) Directed independent reading and research in an area selected by the student with the approval of the supervising faculty member and Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .