#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/centers/capr.php
CAPR - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources Centers Centers Center for Applied Psychological Research Gambling Clinic Psychological Services Center Institute for Intelligence Systems Home Department of Psychology Centers CAPR Center for Applied Psychological Research Mission Statement | Goals and Objectives | Research and Funded Activity | Service Profile | Conclusion Frank Andrasik, Ph.D. Distinguished Professor and Chair Director of CAPR Phone: 901.678.2146 fndrasik@memphis.edu Founded in 1984, the Center for Applied Psychological Research is one of the original Tennessee Centers of Excellence, and it is now designated an Accomplished Center of Excellence. Over the twenty-three years that have elapsed since CAPR began, CAPR has far exceeded all benchmarks set for its performance. CAPR faculty have attracted millions of dollars in extramural funding to the State of Tennessee, published hundreds of scholarly works, graduated hundreds of masters and doctoral students and many times that number of undergraduates, been elected or appointed to many national professional offices, and won numerous local and national honors and awards. By any standard CAPR is one of the most successful centers ever funded under the State of Tennessee's Centers of Excellence program. CAPR Mission Statement The faculty members in CAPR apply scientific methods and knowledge of psychology to the solution of problems in individuals, communities, and society. The faculty advance scientific research and theory in addition to solving practical problems. CAPR is one of the original Tennessee Centers of Excellence that was established in 1984. CAPR is now designated an Accomplished Center of Excellence, in recognition of the Center's consistently high quality of research, teaching, and service over the years. During the last decade, faculty in the CAPR have brought in and expended over $30 million in external funding, published over 1500 scholarly works, and graduated hundreds of masters and doctoral students. For every $1 invested in CAPR by the State of Tennessee, the faculty currently bring in another $5.50 as PI's on external grants. The 33 faculty in CAPR cover six areas of specialization: (1) behavioral medicine and community psychology, (2) neuropsychology and behavioral neuroscience, (3) child and family studies, (4) cognitive and social processes, (5) psychotherapy and psychopathology, and (6) industrial and organizational psychology. In order to convey the scope of CAPR more concretely, some research projects that are currently funded by external grants are presented in the subsequent pages. CAPR Goals and Objectives Since its inception, the three primary goals of the CAPR have always been (a) to achieve national prominence for its accomplishments, (b) to increase the number of trained psychologists able to conduct, disseminate, and apply such research, and (c) to secure extramural funding to facilitate research and training. In addition, as part of a Psychology Department in a major urban research university, CAPR supports the general teaching, research, and service missions of the department and university. CAPR Service Profile In addition, CAPR faculty share their knowledge and expertise with the city and state in numerous other ways. For example, during the last several years, the CAPR faculty included (a) a member of the Task Force on Autism of the State of Tennessee Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation; (b) a research consultant to Leadership Memphis; (c) President of the Advisory Board of Project R.A.P. (Responsible Adolescent Parenting), a local project to prevent teen pregnancies; (d) a member of a state committee to develop standards of practice guidelines and legislative actions on the issue of sexual misconduct by mental health professionals; (e) a member of the Shelby County Environmental Improvement Commission; (f) consultants to the Environmental Court (General Sessions, Division 14, Judge Potter) to improve the flow of cases through the court; (g) consultants to several state agencies to improve highway safety; (h) consultants to a survey to identify the best location of the Internal Revenue Service Center in Memphis; and (i) the co-host of a weekly television news piece to improve health called "Ask the Prevention Center". CAPR faculty provide most of these services at no charge to the recipients. CAPR Conclusion The CAPR has been an excellent investment for the citizens of Tennessee, in terms of research and teaching productivity, in terms of attracting external grant dollars, and in terms of having an impact on the real problems of our community and state. But as we enter our second decade of CAPR funding, we are already considering how we can improve on that first decade's performance. Self-evaluation is a regular part of our work; and every few years we bring in outside experts to give us critical feedback about how we can improve. In 1995 CAPR conducted one such review by bringing in our Board of Visitors for their advice, and as a result CAPR has initiated a major review of CAPR organization. One goal is to streamline our organizational structure to make it smaller, more efficient, and a better training experience for undergraduate and graduate students. Another goal is to ensure that CAPR dollars are being spent where they will produce the most return on the investment—in the specialty areas and faculty that have produced high quality basic or applied research, and on activities that contribute directly and demonstrably to our mission. Centers Centers Center for Applied Psychological Research Gambling Clinic Psychological Services Center Institute for Intelligence Systems Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .