#http://www.memphis.edu/law/faculty-staff/daniel-kiel.php
Daniel Kiel - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Home School of Law Faculty Daniel Kiel Daniel Kiel Associate Professor of Law Phone (901) 678-1762 Email dkiel@memphis.edu Fax Office Law School, Office 346 Office Hours About Professor Kiel Professor Kiel's work centers on inequality in the education system, particularly along lines of race. His research examines efforts to reduce educational disparities, including both the historical era of desegregation and more modern efforts to reform the structure of public education. In 2011, Prof. Kiel built upon his work on school desegregation in Memphis through an oral history project that culminated in The Memphis 13, a documentary film he wrote and directed sharing the stories of the first students to desegregate public schools in Memphis. The film premiered at the National Civil Rights Museum on the 50th anniversary of that historic event and has been featured at film festivals, universities, and museums across the country. In addition to his scholarly writing for law reviews listed below, Prof. Kiel has written op-eds for the Washington Post, USA Today, and the Memphis Commercial Appeal and has given numerous presentations on issues of race and education, both locally and nationally. During the merger of school districts in Shelby County, Prof. Kiel was appointed to the Transition Planning Commission charged with crafting a plan for that merger, and served as chairperson of the group's Education Committee. For his work on schooling in Memphis, he has been cited in The New York Times, The Atlantic, and Education Week and was awarded the 2013 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Human Rights Award by the University of Memphis. Prior to entering teaching, Prof. Kiel worked in private practice doing civil litigation at firms in Boston and Memphis. While in practice, he also represented criminal defendants in front of both the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals and the Tennessee Court of Criminal Appeals. Prof. Kiel serves on the boards of Facing History and Ourselves and Memphis Jewish Family Services, and was a founding steering committee member of Common Ground Memphis. On campus, he serves on the faculty advisory board of the Benjamin Hooks Institute of Social Change. Education J.D., Harvard Law School, 2004; B.A., University of Texas at Austin, 2001 Admitted State Bar of Texas, DC Bar. Experience Prior to entering teaching, Prof. Kiel worked in private practice doing civil litigation at firms in Boston and Memphis. While in practice, he also represented criminal defendants in front of both the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals and the Tennessee Court of Criminal Appeals. Teaching Interests Education Law &amp; Policy, Civil Rights, Property, Remedies, Constitutional Law, Law &amp; Documentary Studies Research &amp; Publications The Memphis 13 , documentary film (2011) The Endangered School District: The Promise and Challenge of Redistributing Control of Public Education , Boston University Public Interest Law Journal (2013) The Enduring Power of Milliken's Fences , The Urban Lawyer (2013) A Memphis Dilemma: A Half-Century of Education Reform from Desegregation to Consolidation , Univ. of Memphis Law Review (2011) An Ounce of Prevention is Worth a Pound of Cure: Reframing the Debate About Law School Affirmative Action , Denver Law Review (2011) It Takes a Hurricane: Might Hurricane Katrina Produce for New Orleans Students What Brown Once Promised? , Journal of Law &amp; Education (2011) Accepting Justice Kennedy's Dare: The Future of Integration in a Post-PICS World , Fordham Law Review (2010) Exploded Dream: Desegregation in the Memphis City Schools , Law &amp; Inequality (2008) Lessons from the Memphis 13: What 13 First Graders Have to Teach About Life, Law, and the Legacy of Brown, Thurgood Marshall Law Review (forthcoming) Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .