#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/biol.php
BIOL Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning BIOL Courses BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES (BIOL) In addition to the courses below the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: BIOL 6090-6099. Special Topics. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Online course listings; may be repeated with different topics for a maximum of 4 hours. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 7700-40–8700-40. Special Topics in Biology. (1-4). Current topics of special interest in biology. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 6051 - Marine Ecology (5) This course is taught only at the Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Mississippi. University of Memphis residence credit is given through affiliation with the Laboratory. Relationship of marine organisms to their environment; effects of temperature, salinity, light, nutrient concentration, currents, food, and competition on abundance and distribution of marine organisms. PREREQUISITE: 16 hours of biology including general zoology, general botany, and invertebrate zoology. BIOL 6053 - Plant Ecology (4) Relationships of plants and environmental factors at physiological, population, and community scales; ecosystem dynamics at local and landscape scales; emphasis on field techniques. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 6054 - Wetland Ecology (4) Wetlands and wetland resources; attributes of hydrology, biogeochemistry, and wetland plants with emphasis on bottomland hardwood forests. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3050 and consent of instructor. BIOL 6055 - Ecological/Environ Issues (3) Ecological perspective on current environmental issues such as conservation and biodiversity, global climatic change, and regulation of chemicals in the environment. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 6056 - Tropical Ecology (4) Lecture and field intensive course in ecology of the tropics. International travel required for laboratory portion of course. Two lecture hours, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 6071 - Human Genetics (3) Genetic principles as they apply to humans, including pedigree analysis, genetic counseling, cancer, and genomics. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3072. BIOL 6090 - Molecular Biology of the Gene (3) Spatial and quantitative analysis of animal population. BIOL 6092 - Immunol Diversity/Innate Immun (3) Phylogenesis and development of the defensive immune systems of the vertebrate classes and the invertebrates. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 3130 or BIOL 3500 or permission of instructor BIOL 6100 - Evolution (3) Synthesis of principles and concepts of modern evolutionary theory; geological evolution, biological evolution, and evolution of societies; emphasis on recent developments and current controversies. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3072. BIOL 6150 - Developmental Biology (3) (MMCS 6150). Introduction to study of developing biological systems at cellular and molecular level. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3072 and CHEM 3511. BIOL 6200 - Marine Botany (4) This course is taught only at the Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Mississippi. University of Memphis residence credit is given through affiliation with the Laboratory. Local examples of principal groups of marine algae and maritime flowering plants, treating structure, reproduction, distribution, identification and ecology. PREREQUISITE: ten hours of biology, including introductory botany; permission from instructor. BIOL 6230 - Plant Physiology (3) Whole plant functioning and plant responses to environmental stresses and pollution. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121, or permission of instructor. BIOL 6241 - Biogeog/GIS Analyses/Ecology (3) (Same as ESCI 6241). Basic principles of interaction between geography, organism diversity and evolution; physical factors limiting species distribution, theories of island biogeography, geographical modes of speciation. Laboratories introduce principles of GIS, basic functions of ArcGIS, and other programs relevant to ecological studies. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121, or permission of instructor. BIOL 6245 - Plant Systematics/Evolution (4) Evolution and classification of flowering plants, Angiosperms; diversity of flowering plants on worldwide basis; relationship of major flowering plant families; systems of classification, nomenclature, field collecting techniques, preparation of specimens, family characteristics. Laboratories include practical aspects of flowering plant classification and identification. Three lecture hours and three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121, or BIOL 3200, or permission of instructor. BIOL 6375 - Molec Biol/Parasites (4) (MMCS 4375). Parasites with emphasis on molecular and immunological aspects of their biology; parasites of humans emphasized with some examples of parasites of companion animals and livestock; biology, treatment and prevention of parasitic diseases. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3130 or 3550. BIOL 6380 - Histology/Tissue/Organ (4) (MMCS 6380). Histology, with emphasis on the relationship between structure and function in mammalian tissues and organs; human histology emphasized. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 6401 - Plant Cell Molec Biol (3) (MMCS 6400). The cellular and molecular basis of plant development, including plant hormones, signal transduction, regulation by light, plant-microbe interactions, and plant transformation. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3130 and BIOL 3072. BIOL 6440 - Pathogenic Bacteriology (3) (MMCS 4440). Unifying concepts in bacterial pathogenesis, with emphasis on molecular aspects of pathogenesis and modern approaches to pathogenesis research; introduction to immunology; human microbiota and opportunistic pathogens; pathogen evolution; virulence factor regulation, delivery, and mechanism; antibiotics and antibiotic resistance; vaccination. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3550 and CHEM 3511. BIOL 6445 - Immunology (3) (MMCS 6445). Antigens, immunoglobulin classes, cells and cytokines of immune response, complement system, hypersensitivities, blood groups, vaccines and immunity. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3130 or 3500 and CHEM 3511. BIOL 6450 - Microbial Ecology (3) (MMCS 6450). Roles of microorganisms in the environment; microbial processes, interactions with the environment and biota, population ecology, community ecology, and biodegradation. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Consent of instructor. BIOL 6465 - Adv Medical Microbiol Lab (2) (MMCS 6465). Application of modern laboratory techniques and instrumentation to experiments in pathogenic bacteriology, immunology, virology, and parasitology. Four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3500 and 3505. BIOL 6470 - Molecular Genetics (4) (MMCS 6470). Structure, function, and replication of DNA, recombination, colinearity of DNA with genetic map, mutagenesis, plasmids, genetic code, protein synthesis, suppression, regulation of gene expression, genetic engineering, and immunogenetics. For students without formal training in molecular genetics. Four lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3072 and BIOL 3130 or 3500. BIOL 6480 - Cellular/Molec Pharmacol (3) Provides basic understanding of mechanisms by which therapeutic agents regulate physiological function of cells comprising organ systems such as the heart and central nervous system; drug action (pharmacodynamics) addressed at the molecular, cellular, and organ level, as well as common diseases affecting a system. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 1120 and BIOL 3130. BIOL 6500 - Marine Microbiology (5) This course is taught only at the Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Mississippi. University of Memphis residence credit is given through affiliation with the Laboratory. Role of microorganisms in overall ecology of oceans and estuaries. PREREQUISITE: general microbiology and environmental microbiology, or permission of instructor. BIOL 6501 - Virology (3) (MMCS 6501). Introductory study of viruses of human and veterinary significance, and methods of cultivation, isolation, and characterization; study of pathogenic mechanisms. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3130, 3500 or 3550. BIOL 6503 - Lab Tech In Biochem (2) (MMCS 6503). (Same as CHEM 6501). Biochemical techniques, analysis and design strategies; properties of protein/enzymes, including binding, catalysis, kinetics, electron and proton transport processes of intermediate metabolism; purification, characterization and assay of enzymes using chromatography, spectroscopy and electrophoresis. Six laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3501. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 6511 or CHEM 6511. BIOL 6504 - Lab Tech Molecular Biol (2) (MMCS 6504). Biochemical and molecular biology laboratory techniques; emphasis on nucleic acids and recombinant DNA; vector design and practical incorporation into host systems; product expression, isolation and identification; bioinformatics in research design strategies. Six laboratory hours per week; PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: BIOL 6512 or CHEM 6512 or permission of instructor. BIOL 6511 - Biochemistry I (3) (MMCS 4511). (Same as CHEM 4511). Chemistry of amino acids and proteins related to their properties in biochemical systems; protein conformation studies; enzymology, coenzymes and their functions; importance of pH and bioenergetics in catalysis; protein and carbohydrate metabolism. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3511 with at least a C-. BIOL 6512 - Biochemistry II (3) (MMCS 6512). (Same as CHEM 6512). Continuation of BIOL 6511; chemistry of lipids; metabolism, membrane formation and function in cell signaling mechanisms and sensory transduction; chemistry of nucleotides, DNA and RNA; mechanisms of information storage and transmission; advanced treatment of enzyme kinetics. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 6511 or CHEM 6511 with at least C-. BIOL 6600 - Marine Vert Zoo Icht (6) This course is taught only at the Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Mississippi. University of Memphis residence credit is given through affiliation with the Laboratory. Marine Chordata, including lower groups and the mammals and birds, with most emphasis on the fishes. PREREQUISITE: 16 hours of zoology including comparative anatomy or consent of the instructor. BIOL 6604 - Animal Behavior (4) Animal behavior, primarily from ecological, physiological, developmental, and evolutionary perspective. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 6630 - Gen Endocrinology (3) Anatomy and physiology of the organs of internal secretion; role of hormones in metabolism and development. Three lecture-demonstration hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3030 or 3730, or permission of instructor. BIOL 6635 - Neurobiology (3) Basic structure and function of nervous system and its development; resting membrane potential, structure/function of ion channels; mechanisms of action potential conduction, presynaptic neurotransmitter vesicle exocytosis, postsynaptic receptors and signal transduction pathways, synaptic structure and development. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3130 or permission of instructor. BIOL 6640 - Ornithology (4) Biology of birds, with emphasis on avian anatomy, physiology, behavior, and reproductive biology. Field trips emphasize identification of local species and techniques of field study. Two lecture, four field/laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 6644 - Ichthyology (4) Fishes, with special emphasis upon the kinds that occur in Tennessee; collection, preservation, and identification; life histories, management, and economic importance of fishes. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 6646 - Marine Fisheries Mgmt (4) This course is taught only at the Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Mississippi. University of Memphis residence credit is given through affiliation with the Laboratory. Overview of practical marine fishery management problems. PREREQUISITE: Consent of instructor. BIOL 6651 - Field Tech/Vertebrate Zoology (4-6) Techniques in extended field study of vertebrates outside the local area. Credit hours to be determined in consultation with instructor. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 6730 - Urban Ecol/Wildlife Mgmt (3) Study of interrelations and management of organisms considered part of the wildlife realm (game and non-game) in urban environments; provides information required to understand ecological and wildlife issues in urban areas and to develop management strategies for maintaining sustainable natural resources on disturbed landscapes. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3050 or permission of instructor. BIOL 6740 - Mammalogy (4) Classification, distribution, life histories, economic importance, techniques of field study, methods of collection and preservation of mammals. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 6744 - Herpetology (4) Classification, distribution, life histories, techniques of collection and preservation, natural habitats of North American reptiles and amphibians. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 6745 - Tropical Herpetology (4) Lecture and field-intensive course in herpetology of the tropics; international travel required for laboratory portion of course. Two lecture hours, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 6800 - Marine Invertebrate Zool (6) This course is taught only at the Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Mississippi. University of Memphis residence credit is given through affiliation with the Laboratory. Important free-living, marine and estuarine invertebrates of Mississippi Sound and adjacent continental shelf of northeastern Gulf of Mexico; emphasis on structure, classification, phylogenetic relationships, larval development, and functional processes. PREREQUISITE: 16 hours of zoology including introductory invertebrate zoology. BIOL 6840 - Invertebrate Zoology (4) Invertebrate phyla with emphasis on phylogeny, embryology, and ecology of selected groups. Extended field trip. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 6844 - Parasites Marine Animals (6) This course is taught only at the Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Mississippi. University of Memphis residence credit is given through affiliation with the Laboratory. Parasites of marine animals with emphasis on morphology, taxonomy, life histories, and host parasite relationships. Lecture, laboratory and field work. PREREQUISITE: General parasitology or consent of the instructor. BIOL 6850 - Fauna/Ecology Tidal Marsh (4) This course is taught only at the Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, Ocean Springs, Mississippi. University of Memphis residence credit is given through affiliation with the Laboratory. Survey and discussion of taxonomy, distribution, trophic relationships, reproductive strategies and adaptation of tidal marsh animals; emphasis on those occurring in northern Gulf marshes. PREREQUISITE: 16 hours of biology and junior standing, or permission of instructor. BIOL 6900 - Entomology (4) Morphology, physiology, behavior, and ecology of insects. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week; PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120 and 1121. BIOL 7000 - Orientation Grad Stdy (2) Source of literature in field of biology, data presentation, graphic techniques, and manuscript preparation. One lecture, two laboratory hours per week. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 7004 - College Biol Teaching (1) (MMCS 7004-8004). Under faculty supervision, graduate students participate in teaching of laboratory sections of existing undergraduate courses in the biological sciences. Student's performance evaluated by faculty member in charge and appropriate grade assigned. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 7006 - Care/Humane Use Lab Animals (2) (MMCS 7006-8006). Care and use of live vertebrate animals in research and teaching. Students must enroll in this course before working with live vertebrate animals; fulfills requirements of Federal Animal Welfare Act and NIH Guide. One lecture and two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 7007 - Exp Cell/Molec Biol Tchr (4) (MMCS 7010). Developing inquiry-based laboratory activities to teach basic concepts of cell and molecular biology in middle and high school settings; includes basic concepts, fundamental laboratory skills, and methods for designing inquiry-based laboratory exercises. NOTE: May not be applied to degree requirements. Two lecture, six laboratory hours per week. BIOL 7008 - Intro Genomics/Bioinformatics (3) (Same as BINF 7701) Accelerated introduction to molecular and genomic sciences, covering basic concepts of gene and protein structure/function, genome sequencing and annotation, single nucleotide polymorphism, genetic variation, gene expression, and functional genomics and proteomics. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 7010 - Prin Meth Sys Biology (3) Systematic philosophies and numerical methods developed to deal with systematic and taxonomic problems; discussions of international rules, concept of species, and the roles and aims of practicing systematists; projects designed to give practical experience in analyzing data. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. BIOL 7011 - Adv Topics Wetland Ecol (3) Covers a range of current topics related to wetland science and issues at national and regional levels; includes site visits and case studies on selected wetlands. Two hours lecture and one laboratory/field component. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 4054/6054 or equivalent and permission of instructor. BIOL 7012 - Plant Ecophysiology (3) Covers various topics on plant responses to environmental factors, effects of global climate changes on plant health and functioning, and techniques used to quantify environmental variables and plant responses. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3230 or equivalent and permission of instructor. BIOL 7014 - Tchng Skills Grad Asst (3) (MMCS 7003-8003). Strategies and skills for effective college teaching; includes use of innovative approaches and computer-based instructional technology. May be repeated up to 12 credit hours. May not be applied to degree requirements. BIOL 7015 - Aquaculture (3) Principles and procedures related to the culture of commercially important freshwater organisms under controlled conditions. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 7016 - Mol Syst Ecology (3) Application of systematic and genetic theory to the understanding of past and present patterns and processes in animals, emphasizing laboratory analysis techniques to address a variety of questions on behavioral, ecological, and evolutionary biology. Two 2-hour combined lab/lectures per week. BIOL 7017 - Topics In Evolution (1-3) Lecture, readings, discussion, and oral presentation on evolutionary biology. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours for PhD students; 6 credit hours for MS students. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 7018 - Topics In Physiology (1-3) Lecture, readings, discussion, and oral presentation on physiology. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours for PhD students; 6 credit hours for MS students. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 7019 - Topics In Animal Behavior (1-3) Lecture, readings, discussion and oral presentation on animal biology. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours for PhD students; 6 credit hours for MS students. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 7020 - Topics In Ecology (1-3) Lecture, readings, discussion , and oral presentation on ecology. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours for PhD students; 6 credit hours for MS students. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 7031 - Cell Physiology (3) (MMCS 7031-8031). Cellular thermodynamics, membrane transport systems, ion channels, oxidative phosphorylation, electron transport, cytoskeleton and mechanochemical coupling systems.Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 7040 - Light Microsc/Theory & Appl (4) (MMCS 7040-8040). Principles of bright field, fluorescence, confocal, two-photons and super resolution microscopy; methods to prepare specimen for bright field, fluorescence and live microscopy. Three hours lecture and two hours lab per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 7051 - Vertebrate Cell Cultr Tech (3) (MMCS 7051-8051). Theory, principles, and protocols in use of vertebrate cell cultures and cell lines in biomedical research.Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 7080 - Public Health Microbiol (3) Overview of the nature of diseases threatening the public health of contemporary societies covering fundamental microbiology; microbe-human interactions; and emerging microbial diseases, common food-borne diseases, and pathogens for bioterrorism. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 7092 - Research (1-6) Consultation, reading, and laboratory work investigating selected topics in biology. Only 6 semester hours credit may be counted toward degree requirements for MS students seeking a thesis and 3 for MS students seeking a non-thesis degree; 9 semester hours credit for PhD students. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 7093 - Problems In Zoology (3-6) Supervised research on specific problems in marine zoology for graduates. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 6800 or 6600.Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 7102 - Thesis Proposal (2) Preparation of a thesis project proposal in a grant format and an oral defense of the proposal. Students should not be concurrently enrolled for BIOL 7102 and BIOL 7200. PREREQUISITE: BIOL master's student. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 7130 - Curr Lit Cell & Molec Biol (1) Lecture, readings, discussion, oral presentation from current cell and molecular biology research articles. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 credit hours for PhD students; 2 credit hours for MS students. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor BIOL 7131 - Cell & Molecular Biol (4) (MMCS 7131-8131). Introduction to principles of molecular biology as they apply to eukaryotic cells including transcription, translation, regulation of protein function, DNA replication, membrane biogenesis, secretion, hormone action, signal transduction, and ligand receptor interaction. Four lecture hours per week. BIOL 7135 - Protein Trafficking (3) Modern theories of co-translational and post-translational protein targeting in eukaryotic cells to include function and evolution of classical trafficking pathway elements. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 3130 and BIOL 4512-6512. BIOL 7140 - Receptors & Signaling (3) Develops state-of-the-art understanding of issues in cell receptors and signaling, covering receptor-ligand interactions including methods of identification and quantification; emphasizes specific characteristics of G protein-coupled receptors, receptor tyrosine kinases, and ligand-activate transcription factors including mechanisms of action and signaling pathways activated by each receptor. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 7200 - Seminar In Biology (1) Student presentations of topics in biology. Open to Biology students only. Only 3 semester hours may be counted toward degree requirements for MS students, 5 for PhD students. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 7250 - Comm & Landscape Ecol (4) Distributions of organisms on worldwide and local basis with emphasis on factors influencing distribution and growth. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3050 or consent of the instructor. BIOL 7290 - Molecular Computing (3) (MMCS 7290-8290). (Same as COMP 7290-8290). Basics of cell biology and genetics (DNA structure and enzymes, replication, and translation); feasible DNA-based solution of hard computational problems; issues in the design of molecular computers; foundations of nanotechnology. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6030 or permission of instructor. BIOL 7331 - Photosynthesis (2) (MMCS 7331-8331). Lectures and readings on modern theory of photosynthesis; includes such topics as chloroplast structure and function; chemistry and photo-chemistry of chlorophyll; influence of external factors on rate of photosynthesis, absorption, fluorescence, and luminescence; energy storage; efficiency; carbon fixation; photosynthesis in cell extracts; phosphorylation. Two lecture hours per week. BIOL 7335 - Hormones And Behavior (3) Examines the relationship between endocrinology and behavior in animals and humans and how this relationship underlies survival and reproduction. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Endocrinology (BIOL 4630-6630) or permission of instructor. BIOL 7338 - Biological Clocks (3) A consideration of the biological clocks that generate daily, lunar, seasonal and annual rhythms in various animals including people. Emphasis on neuroendocrine substrates, development and adaptive significance of reproductive cycles, feeding rhythms, sleep-wakefulness cycles, hibernation cycles, body weight and migratory cycles. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Graduate standing and Permission of instructor. BIOL 7340 - Behavioral Ecology (3) Examines the influence of natural selection on animals' ability to exploit resources, avoid predators, secure mates, rear offspring, and communicate with conspecifics. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 7345 - Animal Communication (3) Examination of the relationship between evolutionary ecology and animal communication to investigate how animal interactions with conspecifics affect their behavior. A rudimentary knowledge of animal behavior, animal psychology, or ecology is recommended. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 7350 - Evolutionary Ecology (3) Provides the basic foundation for applying genetic and evolutionary theory to the ecology of plants and animals; emphasis on genetic and phenotypic adaptations of plants and animals to their environment. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 7360 - Plant And Environment (3) Discusses plant responses to environmental changes and potential effects of global climate changes on plant health and function. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: plant physiology (BIOL 3230 or equivalent), plant ecology (BIOL 4053-6053 or equivalent), or permission of instructor. BIOL 7370 - Wetland Ecol & Mgmt (3) A wide range of topics relating to wetland science and issues at national and regional levels, including wetland classification, hydrology, and biochemistry, with special emphasis on regional bottomland forests. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: wetland ecology (BIOL 4054-6054) or equivalent or permission of instructor. BIOL 7400 - Comparative Immunology (3) (MMCS 7400-8400). Phylogenesis and development of the defensive immune systems of invertebrates and the vertebrate classes. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 4445-6445 or permission of instructor. BIOL 7440 - Molecular Biol/Cancer (3) Introduction to molecular basis of cancer, cancer therapy and prevention; includes disease-, chemical carcinogen-, and viral-based views of cancer process; surveys modern tools for identifying cancer susceptibility genes and classifying tumors. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 4503-6503 or BIOL 4470-6470, or permission of instructor. BIOL 7464 - Advanced Immunology (4) (MMCS 7464-8464). Selected topics and laboratories in molecular and cellular immunology, immunobiology, tumor immunology, and medical aspects of immunology. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 6445 and 6511 or their equivalent. BIOL 7470 - Adv Bacterial Genetics (3) (MMCS 7470-8470). Advanced studies in the molecular basis of bacterial genetics; including mutation and bacterial repair systems, complementation analysis, recombination, gene transfer mechanisms, gene conversion and marker effects, insertional elements, phase variation, and bacteriophage genetics. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 6470 or equivalent. BIOL 7530 - Bacterial Physiology (3) (MMCS 7530-8530). Bacterial physiology including growth, nutrition, biosynthesis, biodegradation, and adaptation. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 7550 - Food & Indust Toxicol (3) (MMCS 7550-8550). Principles and methodology of genotoxicity; assessment of toxic substances in animal and plant foodstuffs, and in industrial wastes; fungal and bacterial contaminants, food additives, and food processing; biotransformation and health impacts are emphasized. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 7600 - Seminar In Biology (1) Selected topics in the biological sciences. Credit is earned when the results of the student's thesis work is presented. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 7610 - Environ Effects On Devel (2) Environment-gene interactions and developmental plasticity; evolutionary, physiological, morphological, and ecological consequences of these interactions. Two lecture hours per week. BIOL 7750 - Population Ecology (3) Examination and quantification of the processes that influence population dynamics. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3050 or equivalent. BIOL 7751 - Conservation Biology (4) Application of biological principles towards the conservation of natural systems and the organisms they contain. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the instructor. BIOL 7752 - Ecological Genetics (3) The field of Ecological Genetics sits at the interface of studies of natural genetic variation, molecular function, and the environmental context that surrounds them. We will explore methods that assess genetic diversity and the adaptive value of ecologically relevant traits. Topics will include population/quantitative genetics, life history variation, natural selection, conservation, and applied ecological genetics. Students will be introduced to computational resources and tools during tutorials. Students will also read relevant primary literature and participate in live chat/discussions with the study authors. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Research contributing to the development of the MS thesis. Only 6 semester hours may be counted toward degree requirements. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 8000 - Orientation Grad Stdy (2) Source of literature in field of biology, data presentation, graphic techniques, and manuscript preparation. One lecture, two laboratory hours per week. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 8004 - College Biol Teaching (1) (MMCS 7004-8004). Under faculty supervision, graduate students participate in teaching of laboratory sections of existing undergraduate courses in the biological sciences. Student's performance evaluated by faculty member in charge and appropriate grade assigned. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 8006 - Care/Humane Use Lab Animals (2) (MMCS 7006-8006). Care and use of live vertebrate animals in research and teaching. Students must enroll in this course before working with live vertebrate animals; fulfills requirements of Federal Animal Welfare Act and NIH Guide. One lecture and two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 8007 - Exp Cell/Molec Biol Tchr (4) (MMCS 7010). Developing inquiry-based laboratory activities to teach basic concepts of cell and molecular biology in middle and high school settings; includes basic concepts, fundamental laboratory skills, and methods for designing inquiry-based laboratory exercises. NOTE: May not be applied to degree requirements. Two lecture, six laboratory hours per week. BIOL 8010 - Prin Meth Sys Biology (3) Systematic philosophies and numerical methods developed to deal with systematic and taxonomic problems; discussions of international rules, concept of species, and the roles and aims of practicing systematists; projects designed to give practical experience in analyzing data. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. BIOL 8011 - Adv Topics Wetland Ecol (3) Covers a range of current topics related to wetland science and issues at national and regional levels; includes site visits and case studies on selected wetlands. Two hours lecture and one laboratory/field component. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 4054/6054 or equivalent and permission of instructor. BIOL 8012 - Plant Ecophysiology (3) Covers various topics on plant responses to environmental factors, effects of global climate changes on plant health and functioning, and techniques used to quantify environmental variables and plant responses. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3230 or equivalent and permission of instructor. BIOL 8014 - Tchng Skills Grad Asst (3) (MMCS 7003-8003). Strategies and skills for effective college teaching; includes use of innovative approaches and computer-based instructional technology. May be repeated up to 12 credit hours. May not be applied to degree requirements. BIOL 8015 - Aquaculture (3) Principles and procedures related to the culture of commercially important freshwater organisms under controlled conditions. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 8016 - Mol Syst Ecology (3) Application of systematic and genetic theory to the understanding of past and present patterns and processes in animals, emphasizing laboratory analysis techniques to address a variety of questions on behavioral, ecological, and evolutionary biology. Two 2-hour combined lab/lectures per week. BIOL 8017 - Topics In Evolution (1-3) Lecture, readings, discussion, and oral presentation on evolutionary biology. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours for PhD students; 6 credit hours for MS students. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 8018 - Topics In Physiology (1-3) Lecture, readings, discussion, and oral presentation on physiology. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours for PhD students; 6 credit hours for MS students. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 8019 - Topics In Animal Behavior (1-3) Lecture, readings, discussion and oral presentation on animal biology. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours for PhD students; 6 credit hours for MS students. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 8020 - Topics In Ecology (1-3) Lecture, readings, discussion , and oral presentation on ecology. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours for PhD students; 6 credit hours for MS students. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 8031 - Cell Physiology (3) (MMCS 7031-8031). Cellular thermodynamics, membrane transport systems, ion channels, oxidative phosphorylation, electron transport, cytoskeleton and mechanochemical coupling systems.Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 8040 - Light Microsc/Theory & Appl (4) (MMCS 7040-8040). Principles of bright field, fluorescence, confocal, two-photons and super resolution microscopy; methods to prepare specimen for bright field, fluorescence and live microscopy. Three hours lecture and two hours lab per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 8051 - Vertebrate Cell Cultr Tech (3) (MMCS 7051-8051). Theory, principles, and protocols in use of vertebrate cell cultures and cell lines in biomedical research. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 8080 - Public Health Microbiol (3) Overview of the nature of diseases threatening the public health of contemporary societies covering fundamental microbiology; microbe-human interactions; and emerging microbial diseases, common food-borne diseases, and pathogens for bioterrorism. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 8092 - Research (1-6) Consultation, reading, and laboratory work investigating selected topics in biology. Only 6 semester hours credit may be counted toward degree requirements for MS students seeking a thesis and 3 for MS students seeking a non-thesis degree; 9 semester hours credit for PhD students. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 8103 - Dissertation Proposal (3) (MMCS 8100). Preparation of a dissertation project proposal in the NIH grant format and an oral defense of the proposal. PREREQUISITE: BIOL doctoral student. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 8130 - Curr Lit Cell & Molec Biol (1) Lecture, readings, discussion, oral presentation from current cell and molecular biology research articles. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 credit hours for PhD students; 2 credit hours for MS students. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor BIOL 8131 - Cell & Molecular Biol (4) (MMCS 7131-8131). Introduction to principles of molecular biology as they apply to eukaryotic cells including transcription, translation, regulation of protein function, DNA replication, membrane biogenesis, secretion, hormone action, signal transduction, and ligand receptor interaction. Four lecture hours per week. BIOL 8135 - Protein Trafficking (3) Modern theories of co-translational and post-translational protein targeting in eukaryotic cells to include function and evolution of classical trafficking pathway elements. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 3130 and BIOL 4512-6512. BIOL 8140 - Receptors & Signaling (3) Develops state-of-the-art understanding of issues in cell receptors and signaling, covering receptor-ligand interactions including methods of identification and quantification; emphasizes specific characteristics of G protein-coupled receptors, receptor tyrosine kinases, and ligand-activate transcription factors including mechanisms of action and signaling pathways activated by each receptor. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 8200 - Seminar In Biology (1) Student presentations of topics in biology. Open to Biology students only. Only 3 semester hours may be counted toward degree requirements for MS students, 5 for PhD students. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 8250 - Comm & Landscape Ecol (4) Distributions of organisms on worldwide and local basis with emphasis on factors influencing distribution and growth. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3050 or consent of the instructor. BIOL 8290 - Molecular Computing (3) (MMCS 7290-8290). (Same as COMP 7290-8290). Basics of cell biology and genetics (DNA structure and enzymes, replication, and translation); feasible DNA-based solution of hard computational problems; issues in the design of molecular computers; foundations of nanotechnology. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6030 or permission of instructor. BIOL 8331 - Photosynthesis (2) (MMCS 7331-8331). Lectures and readings on modern theory of photosynthesis; includes such topics as chloroplast structure and function; chemistry and photo-chemistry of chlorophyll; influence of external factors on rate of photosynthesis, absorption, fluorescence, and luminescence; energy storage; efficiency; carbon fixation; photosynthesis in cell extracts; phosphorylation. Two lecture hours per week. BIOL 8335 - Hormones And Behavior (3) Examines the relationship between endocrinology and behavior in animals and humans and how this relationship underlies survival and reproduction. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Endocrinology (BIOL 4630-6630) or permission of instructor. BIOL 8338 - Biological Clocks (3) A consideration of the biological clocks that generate daily, lunar, seasonal and annual rhythms in various animals including people. Emphasis on neuroendocrine substrates, development and adaptive significance of reproductive cycles, feeding rhythms, sleep-wakefulness cycles, hibernation cycles, body weight and migratory cycles. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Graduate standing and Permission of instructor. BIOL 8340 - Behavioral Ecology (3) Examines the influence of natural selection on animals' ability to exploit resources, avoid predators, secure mates, rear offspring, and communicate with conspecifics. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 8345 - Animal Communication (3) Examination of the relationship between evolutionary ecology and animal communication to investigate how animal interactions with conspecifics affect their behavior. A rudimentary knowledge of animal behavior, animal psychology, or ecology is recommended. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 8350 - Evolutionary Ecology (3) Provides the basic foundation for applying genetic and evolutionary theory to the ecology of plants and animals; emphasis on genetic and phenotypic adaptations of plants and animals to their environment. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 8360 - Plant And Environment (3) Discusses plant responses to environmental changes and potential effects of global climate changes on plant health and function. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: plant physiology (BIOL 3230 or equivalent), plant ecology (BIOL 4053-6053 or equivalent), or permission of instructor. BIOL 8370 - Wetland Ecol & Mgmt (3) A wide range of topics relating to wetland science and issues at national and regional levels, including wetland classification, hydrology, and biochemistry, with special emphasis on regional bottomland forests. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: wetland ecology (BIOL 4054-6054) or equivalent or permission of instructor. BIOL 8400 - Comparative Immunology (3) (MMCS 7400-8400). Phylogenesis and development of the defensive immune systems of invertebrates and the vertebrate classes. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 4445-6445 or permission of instructor. BIOL 8440 - Molecular Biol/Cancer (3) Introduction to molecular basis of cancer, cancer therapy and prevention; includes disease-, chemical carcinogen-, and viral-based views of cancer process; surveys modern tools for identifying cancer susceptibility genes and classifying tumors. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 4503-6503 or BIOL 4470-6470, or permission of instructor. BIOL 8464 - Advanced Immunology (4) (MMCS 7464-8464). Selected topics and laboratories in molecular and cellular immunology, immunobiology, tumor immunology, and medical aspects of immunology. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 6445 and 6511 or their equivalent. BIOL 8470 - Adv Bacterial Genetics (3) (MMCS 7470-8470). Advanced studies in the molecular basis of bacterial genetics; including mutation and bacterial repair systems, complementation analysis, recombination, gene transfer mechanisms, gene conversion and marker effects, insertional elements, phase variation, and bacteriophage genetics. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 6470 or equivalent. BIOL 8530 - Bacterial Physiology (3) (MMCS 7530-8530). Bacterial physiology including growth, nutrition, biosynthesis, biodegradation, and adaptation. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 8550 - Food & Indust Toxicol (3) (MMCS 7550-8550). Principles and methodology of genotoxicity; assessment of toxic substances in animal and plant foodstuffs, and in industrial wastes; fungal and bacterial contaminants, food additives, and food processing; biotransformation and health impacts are emphasized. Three lecture hours per week. BIOL 8600 - Seminar In Biology (1) Selected topics in the biological sciences. Credit is earned when the results of the student's thesis work is presented. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOL 8610 - Environ Effects On Devel (2) Environment-gene interactions and developmental plasticity; evolutionary, physiological, morphological, and ecological consequences of these interactions. Two lecture hours per week. BIOL 8750 - Population Ecology (3) Examination and quantification of the processes that influence population dynamics. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3050 or equivalent. BIOL 8751 - Conservation Biology (4) Application of biological principles towards the conservation of natural systems and the organisms they contain. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the instructor. BIOL 8752 - Ecological Genetics (3) The field of Ecological Genetics sits at the interface of studies of natural genetic variation, molecular function, and the environmental context that surrounds them. We will explore methods that assess genetic diversity and the adaptive value of ecologically relevant traits. Topics will include population/quantitative genetics, life history variation, natural selection, conservation, and applied ecological genetics. Students will be introduced to computational resources and tools during tutorials. Students will also read relevant primary literature and participate in live chat/discussions with the study authors. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOL 9000 - Doc Res & Dissert (1-10) The dissertation must be an independent research project applying a mastery of the techniques of scientific research. It must be a distinct and new contribution to the body of scientific knowledge. A maximum total of 18 hours may be counted toward degree requirements. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .