#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/health_serv.php
Health Services - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Health Services Health Services Students following guidelines for Health Services are interested in the helping professions. This curriculum will prepare students for a wide range of health care positions in hospitals, health departments, health agencies, research facilities, schools and industry. This program is also for experienced health care professionals who have completed non-baccalaureate programs in health care specialties such as medical laboratory technology, respiratory therapy, radiological technology, and nursing who will build upon their training and experience by taking courses in such areas as business practice, interpersonal skills, policy, risk management, social context of health care, and financial management. A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. B. Coordinated Study (48 hours) Students must earn a minimum grade of “C-” in all classes within the Coordinated Study 1. Professional Core (30 hours) take each class as indicated below ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting I ACCT 2020 Fundamental of Accounting II MGMT 3110 Organization and Management OR HCL 3000 Healthcare Leadership, Management and Organization OR HETH 4211 Healthcare Leadership &amp; Management Human Resource Management MGMT 3215 Human Resource Management OR HCL 4030 Healthcare Human Resources Financial FIR 3410 Business Finance OR MRCH 4300 Family Resource Management OR2 HCL 3010 Healthcare Financial Management Professional Writing ENGL 3601 Technical &amp; Professional Writing OR JOUR 3621 Public Relations Writing OR MGMT 3510 Business Communication OR HCL 3050 Professional Writing for Healthcare Leaders Research Methods SOCI 3311 Social Statistics OR HCL 4030 Healthcare Statics and Research OR HETH 4210 Healthcare Research Methods Health Communication COMM 3012 Health Communication OR HCL 3020 Health Care Informatics OR COMM 4211 Public Health Campaigns Policy and Social Context HCL 4000 Healthcare Policy Issues OR HETH 4212 Trends and Issues in Healthcare OR HPRO 4530 Principle/Appl/Epidemiology OR HCL 4020 Law/Ethics of Healthcare OR PADM 4226 Intro Nonprofit Organizations Health Care Systems HCL 3040 US Health Systems OR HETH 4213 Community Healthcare: Issues and Services OR HPRO 2200 Intro/Public Health/HPRO Health Care Specialty Guided Electives (18 hours-Choose 6 courses or any courses from above not used) COBH 4707 International Health: Problems &amp; Issues CDFS 2101 Family in Global Perspective HCL 3020 Healthcare Informatics HCL 3030 Healthcare Strategic Planning and Marketing HCL 3040 U S Health System HCL 4020 Law and Ethics in Healthcare HCL 4040 Business Principles/Healthcare HMSE 2102 First Aid/CPR HPRO 2100 Wellness Concepts Practice HPRO 2200 Intro/Public Health PHIL 3514 Biomedical Ethics NUTR 2202 Nutrition PSYC 3507 Alcohol, Drugs and Behavior PSYC 3512 Health Psychology SOCI 4442 Sociology of Poverty SOCI 4851 Medical Sociology SW 3170 Family Caregiving (RODP) UNIV 4110 Internship (3 hours) E. Thematic Studies (6 hours) CSED 4205 Behavioral Science Aspects of Clothing CSED 4300 Family Resource Management CSED 4304 Trends in Housing and Home Furnishings PHIL 3514 Biomedical Ethics UNIV 3500-3599, Topics vary UNIV 4500-4955, Topics vary F. Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project (completed final semester) G. Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .