#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/apply.php
Apply Now - LEAD - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Department of Leadership HIAD LDPS Faculty Home LEAD Apply Now Apply! A Guide to apply for HIAD program Graduate Catalog LARRY McNEAL, PhD Chair and Coordinator of Graduate Studies Room 123, Ball Hall 901.678.2369 E-mail: lmcneal1@memphis.edu I. Master of Science (MS) in Leadership and Policy Studies: The Department offers the Master of Science degree in Leadership and Policy Studies with concentrations in (1) School Administration and Supervision—a licensing program, (2) Leadership, and (3) Student Personnel. A. Program Admission Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the University Graduate School that includes: A completed admissions application An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score. GRE is required for master's degree even in cases where applicant already has one master's degree. Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses. In addition, each applicant to the M.S. School Administration and Supervision (SAS) must submit a portfolio to the Department of Leadership that includes: Letter of application Professional resume Three letters of professional recommendation on letterhead A brief statement of professional goals Evidence of current teacher certification Examples of students' work A personal interview preceded by a writing sample will be scheduled with each applicant and an admission decision will be made following the personal interview. The decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above and obtained during the personal interview. Interested applicants are required to contact the departmental office to obtain admission forms and a more complete statement of admission guidelines and requirements for a Tennessee administrative license. All students seeking licensure must take the appropriate state-required examination at the conclusion of their program. Deadline for submission of all application material is the 3rd Friday in February for the summer semester, the 3rd Friday in June for the fall semester, and the 3rd Friday in September for the spring semester. In addition to #1 above, each applicant to the M.S. in Leadership or M.S. in Student Personnel must submit: Letter of application Professional resume Three letters of professional recommendation on letterhead Brief statement of professional goals The admission decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above. Interested applicants are required to contact the departmental office to obtain admission forms and a more complete statement of admission guidelines. Deadline for submission of all application material for M.S. Leadership concentration and M.S. Student Personnel concentration is April 1 for summer and fall semesters, and November 1 for spring semester. Students completing the MS or EdD in Leadership and Policy Studies will: (1) have developed their skills in leadership, change, policy formulation, the student's program and stewardship of a vision of effectiveness that is shared by others in the organization; (2) have had opportunities to analyze data and its relationship to organizational effectiveness; (3) have concentrated their studies in (a) School Administration and Supervision, (b) Leadership, or (c) Student Personnel (MS only); and (4) have concentrated their studies in an area of specialization. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations, Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. B. Program Requirements A minimum of 36 semester hours is required of all students to obtain the master’s degree. Students will take 9 hours of the departmental core: LEAD 7000, LEAD 7100, and EDPR 7521; and 27 other hours of approved courses in their concentration. The following policies in the Department of Leadership are exceptions to the policies of the Graduate School: A maximum of six (6) hours of transfer credit can be counted toward the concentration in School Administration and Supervision. A maximum of six (6) hours of course work can be validated in the concentration in School Administration and Supervision. Concentrations and Courses: School Administration and Supervision: LDPS 7110, 7120, 7131, 7140, 7141, 7150, 7330; LEAD 7004, 7210 Leadership: A minimum of 27 semester hours, including LEAD 7500, 7100, 5 additional departmental courses, and a portfolio. A minimum of B must be earned in all courses on the program of study. Administration/Supervision Licensure Program: The department maintains a program leading to licensure for students holding an appropriate master’s degree Student Personnel: A minimum of 27 semester hours, including LEAD 7500; HIAD 7060, 7410, 7440, 7442, 7443, 7444; 2 additional courses; and a portfolio. A minimum of B must be earned in all courses on the program of study. II. Doctor of Education (EdD) Degree Program A. Program Admission Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the University Graduate School that includes: A completed admissions application. An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score. Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses. In addition, each applicant to the Ed.D. must submit a portfolio to the Department of Leadership that includes: Letter of application Professional resume Three letters of professional recommendation on letterhead A brief statement of professional goals A personal interview preceded by a writing sample will be scheduled with each applicant and admission decision will be made following the personal interview. The decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to information contained in the completed application packet described above and obtained during the personal interview. Interested applicants are required to contact the departmental office to obtain admission forms and a more complete statement of admission guidelines. Deadline for submission of all application material is the 3rd Friday in February for the summer semester, the 3rd Friday in June for the fall semester, and the 3rd Friday in September for the spring semester. B. Program Requirements A minimum of 54 semester hours beyond the master’s degree is required of all students. Fifteen hours must be taken in the departmental core: LEAD 8001, 8002, 8003, EDPR 8541 and 8542; 9 hours of dissertation; and 30 additional hours. Doctoral programs are not intended for basic administrative certification. Students wishing certification through this program must complete additional course work approximating the requirements in the Certification program noted above. Concentrations and Courses: Educational Leadership: LDPS 8121, 8132, and 8181, and 21 hours approved by the student’s advisory committee. Policy Studies: LDPS 8305, 8310, and 8350, and 21 hours approved by the student’s advisory committee. III. Doctor of Education (EdD) in Higher Education and Adult Education Program objectives are: (1) development of skills in leadership, higher education or adult education, policy formulation, implementation, and evaluation; (2) development of research skills such as data and the relationship to organizational effectiveness; and (3) knowledge and understanding within a concentration area. A. Program Admission Each applicant must submit a completed application packet to the Graduate School that includes: A completed admissions application An official report of Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores Official transcripts for all prior undergraduate and graduate courses In addition, each applicant must submit the following to the Department of Leadership: A professional resume A two-three page statement of academic and professional goals Three letters of recommendation The admission committee may request a personal interview. The admission decision will be based on a holistic profile that includes, but is not limited to, information contained in the completed application packet described above and obtained during the personal interview. Interested applicants are encouraged to contact the departmental office to obtain admission forms and a more completed statement of admission guidelines for the higher and adult education program. Deadline for submission of all application material is April 1 for the summer and fall semesters, and November 1 for the spring semester. B. Program Requirements A minimum of 54 semester hours beyond the master’s degree, including the core requirements of LEAD 8001, 8003, 8500, HIAD 8412, 8415, 8403, EDPR 8541, 8542, and 1 additional research methods course approved by the advisor; 9 hours of dissertation; and 18 hours approved in the concentration. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write the dissertation. Concentrations Higher Education: HIAD 8401, 8420, 8422, 8541, and 6 elective hours approved by the student’s advisory committee. Adult Education: HIAD 8510, 8541, 8542, and 9 elective hours approved by the student’s advisory committee. The following policies in the Department of Leadership are exceptions to the policies of the Graduate School: Graduate students must complete the doctoral program within ten (10) calendar years. A maximum of twelve (12) hours of transfer credit/credits earned as nondegree can be counted toward the degree. A minimum of B must be earned in all courses as indicated on the program of study for HIAD doctoral programs. IV. Certificate in Community College Teaching and Leadership The Department of Leadership offers a certificate for individuals interested in either a teaching or an administrative career in a community college setting. Consisting of 15-18 hours of course work, this program can be applied to or taken simultaneously with a Master of Science degree in Leadership, Student Personnel Services, or a Doctor of Education degree in Higher and Adult Education. Students not pursuing a degree may apply for admission to the Graduate School as certificate seeking. For more information call 901-678-3531. Click here to view corresponding gainful employment data. A. Program Admission: Students already enrolled in a graduate degree seeking program at The University of Memphis must contact the office of Graduate Admissions to request a program status change to pursue the Certificate in Community College Teaching and Leadership. Students must also apply to the Department of Leadership (Higher and Adult Education) to be considered for admission to the certificate program (see below). Students who are only applying to the Certificate program must apply to the Graduate School as a Graduate Certificate student. All students interested in the Community College Teaching and Leadership Certificate must undergo departmental review for admission. The following items must be provided to the Department of Leadership in addition to applying to the Graduate School: Transcripts from your graduate degree or undergraduate degree if a graduate degree has not been earned. Transcripts are not required if your degree was earned from the University of Memphis. Three letters of recommendation; A statement of academic and professional goals detailing how this program will advance your career plans. All departmental materials must be sent to hiad@memphis.edu or delivered to the address below: The HIAD Admissions Committee The University of Memphis Department of Leadership 311 Browning Hall Memphis, TN 38152 Departmental application deadlines are November 1 for the spring term and April 1 for the summer and fall terms. All materials must be received by the deadline to be considered. B. Program Requirements: HIAD 7411-8411, Community Colleges HIAD 7511-8511, Administration and Governance in the Community College HIAD 7541-8541, College Teaching HIAD 8415, IT Trends and Issues in Higher Education LEAD 7500-8500, Adult Learning and Leadership HIAD 7060-8060, Internship in Higher and Adult Education (may be waived for those with broad experience in community college teaching or administration) A minimum of "B" must be earned in all courses included in the Community College Certificate program. LEADERSHIP (LEAD) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: LEAD 7050-59–8050-59. Special Topics in Leadership. (1-3). (EDAS 7712-22-8712-22). In-depth study of selected topics in educational leadership. May be repeated with change in topic. LEAD 6000 - Educ/Schl/Am Society (3) (EDFD 7003-8003). Interdisciplinary study of educational policies and practices in American society; role and function of the school and the teacher; analysis of major problems and issues facing contemporary public education. Five hours of school visitation required. (Fulfills foundations requirement for graduate students seeking teacher licensure.) LEAD 6044 - SPED Law For Educators (3) Study of legal foundations of special education, dealing extensively with federal/state laws and regulations and with administrative and civil court actions in determining status of services to children with special needs. PREREQUISITE: LEAD 2010 or SPED 2000, or knowledge of the characteristics of special needs children and programs that serve them. LEAD 7000 - Intro To Educ Ldrshp (3) (EDAS 7100). Theory and practice of educational leadership; scope, task, areas, processes and procedures, organization structure, problems and issues, and types of personnel needed in the United States. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. LEAD 7004 - Instructional Leadership (3) This is a capstone course in which candidates have opportunities to demonstrate that they have acquired the knowledge of theories, practices, and methodology used by effective instructional leaders to create a school culture that fosters high expectations and continuous growth in the academic achievement of all students. LEAD 7006 - Hist Am Ed Prek-12 (3) Includes study of external historical influences, emphasizing theoretical interpretations, sources of policy, current issues of historical importance, and future expectations. LEAD 7061 - Practicum In Ldrship (1-3) (EDAS 7170-8170). Practical short-term work experiences in various settings appropriate to student's career needs. May be repeated for maximum of 9 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. LEAD 7070 - Culminating Experience (1-6) (EDAS 7996). Capstone course using a problem-based, case-study approach. PREREQUISITE: Must be taken in last semester or by permission of department chair. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. LEAD 7080 - Rdgs/Res Phil of Educ (1-3) Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 7081 - Rdng/Rsrch High/Adlt Ed (1-3) (EDAS 7790-8790). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 7082 - Rdng/Rsrch Ed Ldrship (1-3) (EDAS 7710-8710). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 7083 - Rdgs/Rsrch Educ Plcy (1-3) (EDFD 7008-8008). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 7084 - Rdng/Rsrch Scl/Com Rel (1-3) (EDAS 7700-8700). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 7085 - Rdng/Rsrch Ed Supv (1-3) (EDAS 7750-8750). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 7086 - Rdng/Rsrch Fin/Bus Mgmt (1-3) (EDAS 7730-8730). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 7087 - Rdng/Rsrch Prsnl Negtn (1-3) (EDAS 7760-8760). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 7088 - Rdng/Rsrch Educ Law (1-3) (EDAS 7780-8780). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 7089 - Rdng/Rsrch Plnt/Trnsptn (1-3) (EDAS 7740-8740). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 7090 - Rdgs/Res Hist of Educ (1-3) Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 7100 - Education &amp; Community (3) (EDAS 7000). Educational processes and policies in formal and non-formal community settings; inter-relationships among such settings; field-based, students will assess particular educational policy and its implications within the community. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. LEAD 7210 - Field Experiences (1-9) (EDAS 7171-8171). Internship work experiences under supervision of practicing K-12 professional. May be repeated for maximum of 12 credits. Prospective enrollees must meet departmental deadlines for application. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. LEAD 7500 - Adult Lrng/Leadership (3) (HIAD 7255-8255). Characteristics of adult learners; factors that affect learning, achievement, and motivation throughout the adult life-cycle; implications for educational leaders and human resource development. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. LEAD 7600 - Adult Experiential Learning (1-15) The course focuses on experiential learning that is a process through which students develop knowledge, skills, and values from direct experiences outside a traditional academic setting LEAD 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Prospectus must be approved by the faculty committee directing this research study. Application for writing thesis must be filed with the Director of Graduate Studies. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. LEAD 8000 - Specialist Culmn Exp (1-6) Thesis, internship, field of study, or special project designed under direction of student's committee; capstone experience in Education Specialist program. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. LEAD 8001 - Educ Ldrship In Orgntns (3) (EDAS 8800). Basic theories of organization and administration; historical and contemporary foundations of theories; implications of current theories and practices for organizational and human resource development. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. LEAD 8002 - Am Society &amp; Ed Policy (3) (EDFD 7001-8001). Historical evolution of major social issues and resulting educational policies; normative and empirical bases of educational principles and practices; sociocultural contexts of contemporary problems and issues. LEAD 8003 - Policy-Oriented Rsrch (3) Inquiry methods appropriate to educational policy research; empirico-inductive (grounded) and constructivist inquiry strategies emphasized. PREREQUISITES: LEAD 8001 and 8002, EDPR 8541 or equivalent, or permission of the instructor. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. LEAD 8004 - Instructional Leadership (3) This is a capstone course in which candidates have opportunities to demonstrate that they have acquired the knowledge of theories, practices, and methodology used by effective instructional leaders to create a school culture which fosters high expectations and continuous growth in the academic achievement of all students. LEAD 8006 - Hist Am Ed Prek-12 (3) Includes study of external historical influences, emphasizing theoretical interpretations, sources of policy, current issues of historical importance, and future expectations. LEAD 8061 - Practicum In Ldrship (1-3) (EDAS 7170-8170). Practical short-term work experiences in various settings appropriate to student's career needs. May be repeated for maximum of 9 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. LEAD 8070 - Culminating Experience (1-6) (EDAS 7996). Capstone course using a problem-based, case-study approach. PREREQUISITE: Must be taken in last semester or by permission of department chair. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. LEAD 8080 - Rdgs/Res Phil of Educ (1-3) Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 8081 - Rdng/Rsrch High/Adlt Ed (1-3) (EDAS 7790-8790). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. LEAD 8082 - Rdng/Rsrch Ed Ldrship (1-3) (EDAS 7710-8710). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 8083 - Rdgs/Rsrch Educ Plcy (1-3) (EDFD 7008-8008). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 8084 - Rdng/Rsrch Scl/Com Rel (1-3) (EDAS 7700-8700). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 8085 - Rdng/Rsrch Ed Supv (1-3) (EDAS 7750-8750). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 8086 - Rdng/Rsrch Fin/Bus Mgmt (1-3) (EDAS 7730-8730). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 8087 - Rdng/Rsrch Prsnl Negtn (1-3) (EDAS 7760-8760). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 8088 - Rdng/Rsrch Educ Law (1-3) (EDAS 7780-8780). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 8089 - Rdng/Rsrch Plnt/Trnsptn (1-3) (EDAS 7740-8740). Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 8090 - Rdgs/Res Hist of Educ (1-3) Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. LEAD 8140 - Planning Ed Change (3) Characteristics of change in a variety of educational settings, emphasizing planning theory, implementing and managing change processes; specific variables that impact change efforts; analysis of planning and analysis tools; computer simulations and case studies. LEAD 8210 - Field Experiences (1-9) (EDAS 7171-8171). Internship work experiences under supervision of practicing K-12 professional. May be repeated for maximum of 12 credits. Prospective enrollees must meet departmental deadlines for application. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. LEAD 8500 - Adult Lrng/Leadership (3) (HIAD 7255-8255). Characteristics of adult learners; factors that affect learning, achievement, and motivation throughout the adult life-cycle; implications for educational leaders and human resource development. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. LEAD 8600 - Adult Experiential Learning (1-15) The course focuses on experiential learning that is a process through which students develop knowledge, skills, and values from direct experiences outside a traditional academic setting LEAD 9000 - Dissertation (1-9) (EDAS 9000). Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. HIGHER AND ADULT EDUCATION (HIAD) HIAD 7060 - Intrnshp Hi/Adult Ed (1-6) Work experiences in higher education institution or in adult education settings under supervision of practicing professional and university supervisor. May be repeated for maximum of 6 credits. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7170 - Community Educ Administration (3) Organizational aspects of community education programs, including administration and suprevision of personnel and citizen-community participation in formulating, implementing, and evaluating community education programs. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7171 - Adult &amp; Conti Educ Admin (3) Organization and administration of adult and continuing education, including adult remedial, vocational-technical, community outreach programs; administrative methods and materials appropriate to adult habits and needs; interpreting current legislation and research relating to adult and continuing education programs; planning, implementing, and evaluating strategies. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7172 - Curri Planning in Adu Basic Ed (3) Principles of curriculum building in application to adult basic education students. HIAD 7403 - Rsrch Hghr/Adult Educ (3) Current topics, research problems, new studies, and needed inquiries in higher and adult education. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7/8541, 7/8542, 8415, 1 additional methods course approved by advisor. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7404 - Supervised Research (1-6) Collaborative research with faculty within the major to include planning, design, management, analysis, and reporting of research. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITES: Minimum of 12 hours in major and permission of instructor. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7410 - Overview Higher Educ (3) (EDAS 7190-8190). Higher education in social and historical contexts; organization and administration of colleges and universities. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7411 - Community Colleges (3) (EDAS 7191-8191). History, philosophy, and changing mission of the community college; focus on administration, faculty, staff, and students; curriculum and services; funding, public relations, and the presidency. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7415 - It Trends &amp; Issues (3) Explores issues and trends in information technology for leaders of higher and adult education, involving readings, discussion, and hands-on web research related to IT planning and budget considerations, academic and administrative systems, management of IT professionals, and IT-induced change in various segments of education. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7430 - The Professoriate (3) Faculties of U.S. colleges and universities, nature of their work in various types of institutions, academic reward system, and programs for continuing professional development. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7440 - Stdnt Prsnl Svc High Ed (3) (COUN 7613-8613). Activities, functions, relationships, and philosophy of student personnel services; historical developments and current trends in student personnel services in relation to changing concepts in higher education. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7441 - College Studnt/Culture (3) (COUN 7672-8672). College student characteristics and differing life patterns in institutional perspective; variations in student and college cultures in types of institutions. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7442 - College Student Dev (3) (Same as COUN 7622-8622.) Comprehensive study of traditional and non-traditional college students; emphasis on identification of development needs. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7443 - College Environments (3) (Same as COUN 7623-8623). Person-environment interaction theories, campus ecology, impact of college environments on diverse student populations, and higher education environmental assessment techniques. PREREQUISITE: HIAD 7442-8442. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7444 - Multiculturalism Coll Camp (3) Develops knowledge and skills necessary for leadership in diverse educational backgrounds. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7445 - Group Work in Stud Per (3) Information and experiential opportunities about working with groups for leaders in diverse educational settings. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7450 - College/Unvsty Curric (3) (HIAD 7200-8200). Structure, development, implementation, and assessment of curriculum in colleges and universities; historical and philosophical perspectives; major figures, emerging trends, and contemporary issues. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7452 - Developmental Educ (3) (HIAD 7204-8204). Developmental education programs in colleges and universities; focus on policy, administration, and instruction. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7510 - Overview Of Adult Educ (3) (HIAD 7250). Historical development of adult education; scope of field, including non-formal, post-secondary education, and human resource development. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7511 - Admin/Govt Comm College (3) Clinical examination of structure, governance, management, and institutional culture in the context of accepted administrative practice in the contemporary community college. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7512 - Dev Grant Proposals/Ldrsp Prog (3) (HIAD 7256-8256). Adult leadership programs in various organizations, agencies, and groups as primary, supplementary, or complementary function; community relations and development in funding. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7530 - Continuing Prof Educ (3) Background and development of continuing education for professionals, including medicine, law, social work, psychology, dentistry, and education as well as other fields; examination of impetus and providers for such programs. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7541 - Issues/Trends Tchg Adults (3) (HIAD 7201-8201). Teaching and learning in higher education and other educational settings; analysis of who our learners are and teaching approaches designed for diverse student populations. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7542 - Global/Compartv Issues Ldrshp (3) Cross-cultural and cross-national study of selected issues and problems in higher and adult education; examines role of education in promoting social, economic, and cultural change. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 7543 - External Relations/Fundraising (3) Working with populations external to the organization, such as schools, organizations, community agencies, governments, and the media. Also, principles of fundraising, alumni development, and devlopment campaigns. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8000 - Change Theory in Higher Educ (3) Focus on theories and techniques for helping higher education institutions to change. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8060 - Intrnshp Hi/Adult Ed (1-6) Work experiences in higher education institution or in adult education settings under supervision of practicing professional and university supervisor. May be repeated for maximum of 6 credits. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. HIAD 8170 - Community Educ Administration (3) Organizational aspects of community education programs, including administration and suprevision of personnel and citizen-community participation in formulating, implementing, and evaluating community education programs. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8171 - Adult &amp; Conti Educ Admin (3) Organization and administration of adult and continuing education, including adult remedial, vocational-technical, community outreach programs; administrative methods and materials appropriate to adult habits and needs; interpreting current legislation and research relating to adult and continuing education programs; planning, implementing, and evaluating strategies. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8172 - Curri Planning in Adu Basic Ed (3) Principles of curriculum building in application to adult basic education students. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8400 - Writing for Publication (3) Learn about journals, tailoring articles to journals, writing a research article, working with editors and reviewers. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8401 - Higher Educ Adminstratn (3) (EDAS 7192-8192). Role, function, organization, and administration of colleges and universities; roles of presidents and other administrators; variations in academic and student life in higher education; relationships with various constituencies; problems of practice and power. PREREQUISITE: HIAD 7410, 8415, 8420, 8422, or equivalent. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8403 - Rsrch Hghr/Adult Educ (3) Current topics, research problems, new studies, and needed inquiries in higher and adult education. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7/8541, 7/8542, 8415, 1 additional methods course approved by advisor. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8404 - Supervised Research (1-6) Collaborative research with faculty within the major to include planning, design, management, analysis, and reporting of research. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITES: Minimum of 12 hours in major and permission of instructor. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8405 - Sem Higher/Adlt Educ (3) (HIAD 7258-8258). Culminating experience for doctoral students; examination of current issues using cross-disciplinary perspectives derived from previous coursework. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8406 - Designing Research in HIAD (3) This course focuses on the theoretical, conceptual, and procedural knowledge underpinning the designing of qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods research in higher and adult education. PREREQUISITES: LEAD 8001, HIAD 8412, EDPR 8560 (or EDPR 8561), EDPR 8541, EDPR 8542 or equivalent, or permission of the instructor. HIAD 8410 - Overview Higher Edu (3) (EDAS 7190-8190). Higher education in social and historical contexts; organization and administration of colleges and universities. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8411 - Community Colleges (3) (EDAS 7191-8191). History, philosophy, and changing mission of the community college; focus on administration, faculty, staff, and students; curriculum and services; funding, public relations, and the presidency. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8412 - Hist/Policy Persp Hied (3) (EDFD 7002-8002). Historical development of higher education in the United States; current higher education policy issues in relation to this development. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8415 - IT Trends &amp; Issues (3) Explores issues and trends in information technology for leaders of higher and adult education, involving readings, discussion, and hands-on web research related to IT planning and budget considerations, academic and administrative systems, management of IT professionals, and IT-induced change in various segments of education. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8420 - Legal/Ethical Issues in HIAD (3) (EDAS 8380). Legal principles and significant legal constraints relating to institutions of higher education; emphasis on application of law to organizational structure, students, personnel, programs, property, and finance; analysis of current legal issues. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8422 - Higher Educ Finance (3) (EDAS 8320). Financing of institutions in higher education; sources and methods of securing funds; development of programs; procedures for budget development and analysis; other financial and economic aspects of higher education administration; analysis of current problems related to higher education finance. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7/8541 and EDPR 7/8542. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8430 - The Professoriate (3) Faculties of U.S. colleges and universities, nature of their work in various types of institutions, academic reward system, and programs for continuing professional development. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8440 - Stdnt Prsnl Svc High Ed (3) (COUN 7613-8613). Activities, functions, relationships, and philosophy of student personnel services; historical developments and current trends in student personnel services in relation to changing concepts in higher education. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8441 - College Studnt/Culture (3) (COUN 7672-8672). College student characteristics and differing life patterns in institutional perspective; variations in student and college cultures in types of institutions. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8442 - College Student Dev (3) (Same as COUN 7622-8622.) Comprehensive study of traditional and non-traditional college students; emphasis on identification of development needs. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8443 - College Environments (3) (Same as COUN 7623-8623). Person-environment interaction theories, campus ecology, impact of college environments on diverse student populations, and higher education environmental assessment techniques. PREREQUISITE: HIAD 7442-8442. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8450 - College/Unvsty Curric (3) (HIAD 7200-8200). Structure, development, implementation, and assessment of curriculum in colleges and universities; historical and philosophical perspectives; major figures, emerging trends, and contemporary issues. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8510 - Overview Of Adult Educ (3) (HIAD 7250). Historical development of adult education; scope of field, including non-formal, post-secondary education, and human resource development. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8511 - Admin/Govt Comm College (3) Clinical examination of structure, governance, management, and institutional culture in the context of accepted administrative practice in the contemporary community college. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8512 - Dev Grant Proposals/Ldrsp Prog (3) (HIAD 7256-8256). Adult leadership programs in various organizations, agencies, and groups as primary, supplementary, or complementary function; community relations and development in funding. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8530 - Continuing Prof Educ (3) Background and development of continuing education for professionals, including medicine, law, social work, psychology, dentistry, and education as well as other fields; examination of impetus and providers for such programs. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8541 - Issues/Trends Tchg Adults (3) (HIAD 7201-8201). Teaching and learning in higher education and other educational settings; analysis of who our learners are and teaching approaches designed for diverse student populations. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8542 - Global/Compartv Issues Ldrshp (3) Cross-cultural and cross-national study of selected issues and problems in higher and adult education; examines role of education in promoting social, economic, and cultural change. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. HIAD 8543 - External Relations/Fundraising (3) Working with populations external to the organization, such as schools, organizations, community agencies, governments, and the medial. Also, principles of fundraising, alumni development, and development campaigns. Restricted to students enrolled in HIAD, LDPS, and CCTL programs or by permission of instructor. LEADERSHIP AND POLICY STUDIES (LDPS) LDPS 7110 - Leadership Explr Sem (3) (EDAS 7400). Study of theories informing organization behavior, structure, problems, and issues occurring in organizations; discussion of processes used by organizational leaders; students will explore personal beliefs and values, comparing them to theories and best practices to develop in depth understanding of self and personal perspective as educational leader. LDPS 7112 - Mgmt Ed Grant/Project (3) Planning and management of field-based educational projects, grants, and consulting services. Emphasis on team and group efforts; computer applications in project management. LDPS 7120 - Supervisory Process (1-6) (EDAS 7050). Theory and methodology of educational supervision, with emphasis on instructional leadership; differences in roles for various supervisory personnel; project based. LDPS 7121 - Personnel Admin (3) (EDAS 7160-8160). Educational personnel administration and policy including: human resource management, staffing goals, policies, recruitment, induction, roles, and professional development. LDPS 7131 - School Business Mgmt (1-3) (EDAS 7130-8130). Business affairs of schools in accordance with laws and policies of local, state, and federal agencies; overview of legal and ethical standards; site budgeting and project management. LDPS 7132 - School Finance (3) Funding of public schools in the United States and other developed nations; analysis of various school funding models and related equity issues. LDPS 7140 - Ldrshp Instructionl Improvmnt (3) Theory, research, policy, and practice in educational restructuring and participatory governance; develops skills required to systematically analyze and plan by making data-driven decisions to foster instructional improvement and organizational change necessary to support instruction. LDPS 7141 - The Principalship (3) (EDAS 7111-8111 &amp; 7311-8311). Role of the principal in school site leadership focusing on instructional leadership and organization and administration of the school's resources; projects for elementary, middle, junior, and secondary principalship. LDPS 7150 - Educational Law (3) (EDAS 7180-8180). Federal and state statutes and local regulations applicable to education; legal requirements and their implications for educational operation; legal research methods and case law. LDPS 7180 - Pltcs &amp; Pwr Ed Ldrshp (3) (EDAS 7810-8810). Field study of techniques and strategies for leaders in education to discover sources of community power influencing education policy; emphasis on superintendent, school board, and central office leaders. LDPS 7181 - Plcy Implmntn Ed Ldrshp (3) (EDAS 7811-8811). Development and implementation of administrative policy at the local, state, and national levels in relation to forces that shape thinking of policy-making bodies. LDPS 7305 - Issues In Educ Policy (3) Special issues of current interest related to American educational policies and practices. LDPS 7311 - Issues Phil Educ (3) (EDFD 7021-8021). Critical examination of issues in the philosophy of education; history of issues and their effect on modern public schools. LDPS 7320 - Urb Ed: Hst Cntmp Persp (3) Sociological and cultural dimensions of urban society and education with emphasis on contemporary issues and recent policy developments. LDPS 7330 - Race/Ethn/Gndr/Amer Ed (3) Historical and contemporary study of educational practices and policies related to various ethnic and racial groups, as well as women in the United States; various models of institutional and community forms of multicultural education. LDPS 7350 - Policies/Politics Educ (3) (EDFD 7033-8033). Conceptual and empirical analyses of political and social issues related to US education. LDPS 8111 - Ed Admin Perform Lab (1-6) (EDAS 7370-8370). Laboratory experiences including gaming and simulation to illustrate complex organizations, information systems, network planning and projection systems, and leadership assessment. LDPS 8112 - Mgmt Ed Grant/Project (3) Planning and management of field-based educational projects, grants, and consulting services. Emphasis on team and group efforts; computer applications in project management. LDPS 8115 - Educ Ldrshp Sem (3) (EDAS 7510-8510). Problems and issues derived from trends in contemporary culture that impact on educational leadership; emphasis on instructional leadership. LDPS 8121 - Personnel Admin (3) (EDAS 7160-8160). Educational personnel administration and policy including: human resource management, staffing goals, policies, recruitment, induction, roles, and professional development. LDPS 8132 - School Finance (3) Funding of public schools in the United States and other developed nations; analysis of various school funding models and related equity issues. LDPS 8133 - Econ Of Education (3) (EDAS 8220). Economic aspects of education in the United States and other developed nations. LDPS 8140 - Ldrshp Instructionl Improvmnt (3) Theory, research, policy, and practice in educational restructuring and participatory governance; develops skills required to systematically analyze and plan by making data-driven decisions to foster instructional improvement and organizational change necessary to support instruction. LDPS 8155 - Seminar In Ed Law (3) Analysis of current legislation and case law and its impact on education. PREREQUISITE: LDPS 7150 or permission of instructor. LDPS 8180 - Pltcs &amp; Pwr Ed Ldrshp (3) (EDAS 7810-8810). Field study of techniques and strategies for leaders in education to discover sources of community power influencing education policy; emphasis on superintendent, school board, and central office leaders. LDPS 8181 - Plcy Implmntn Ed Ldrshp (3) (EDAS 7811-8811). Development and implementation of administrative policy at the local, state, and national levels in relation to forces that shape thinking of policy-making bodies. LDPS 8305 - Issues In Educ Policy (3) Special issues of current interest related to American educational policies and practices. LDPS 8310 - Phil Anly &amp; Educ Plcy (3) (EDFD 7022-8022). Exploration and use of philosophical analytical skills for assessing educational policies and practices. LDPS 8311 - Issues Phil Educ (3) (EDFD 7021-8021). Critical examination of issues in the philosophy of education; history of issues and their effect on modern public schools. LDPS 8320 - Urb Ed: Hst Cntmp Persp (3) Sociological and cultural dimensions of urban society and education with emphasis on contemporary issues and recent policy developments. LDPS 8330 - Race/Ethn/Gndr/Amer Ed (3) Historical and contemporary study of educational practices and policies related to various ethnic and racial groups, as well as women in the United States; various models of institutional and community forms of multicultural education. LDPS 8350 - Policies/Politics Educ (3) (EDFD 7033-8033). Conceptual and empirical analyses of political and social issues related to US education. Apply Now Graduate Catalog Need Help? Contact Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .