#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/cas/padm_open.php
PADM - OPEN - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions PADM - OPEN PADM (PADM) OPEN LEARNING FIRE SERVICES PROGRAM School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Division of Public Administration Michael Howell-Moroney, Ph.D., Director Room 136, McCord Hall Admission to PADM 3610, 3611, 3612, 3613, 3614, and 3615 is restricted to students seeking the Bachelor of Professional Studies degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology through University College. PADM 3100 - Seminar Emergency Mgmt (3) (Same as EMGT 3100 and ESCI 3100). Synthesizing and integrating the various elements of emergency management. PADM 3501 - Civic Engagement, Voluntarism (3) Critical introduction to voluntary action and civic engagement in U. S. society; exploration of concepts such as democracy, community, leadership, and civil society. This course is intended for all students interested in voluntarism, community serivce, and public participation. PADM 3601 - Public Admin (3) Concepts, practices and trends of governmental administration in executive departments and national, state, and local public agencies; analysis of bureaucracy, public budgeting and finance; public personnel, public service administrative leadership. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 1020 or equivalent; junior or senior standing. PADM 3610 - Personnel Mgmt Fire Service (3) Personnel practices and management procedures; manpower planning, labor relations recruitment, selection, testing, performance appraisals, classification, motivation, politics, and management. PADM 3611 - Disaster Planning/Control (3) Concepts and principles of community risk assessment, regional and cooperative procedures and plans; relationship of structural, climatic and topographical variables to group fires, conflagrations, and natural disasters; pre- and post-occurrence factors; communications, planning, organizing, coordination, command and logistics. PADM 3612 - Fire Preven Org/Mgmt (3) Examines and evaluates techniques, procedures, programs and agencies involved with fire prevention; public and private fire prevention functions, licenses, permits, zoning, legal aspects, inspection, investigations, planning, arson, and incendiary analysis. PADM 3613 - Fire/Emergency Admin (3) Overview of organization and management in modern fire service; management of equipment and personnel, fire department functions, planning, resource development, labor relations. PADM 3614 - Political/Legl Fnd Fire Prtctn (3) Legal basis for police power of government related to public safety; legal limitations and responsibility; liability of fire prevention organizations and personnel; review of judicial decisions. PADM 3615 - Community Risk Reduction (3) Sociological, economic and political characteristics of communities and their influence on fire problem; how to study community profiles and structures with consideration of economic, geographic, and sociological variables of fire threat.; examination of functional basis of community, diverse social roles of community agencies; study of fire services as complex organization in community. PADM 4101 - Political Statistics (3) (Same as POLS 4101). Introduction to analysis of quantitative data; statistical hypothesis testing in fields of political science and public and health administration. PREREQUISITE: POLS 3100. PADM 4207 - Health Politics/Policy (3) Introduction to the political, economic, and social forces affecting the health care system in the United States; emphasis on the development and comparison of health policies within the context of the stages of American policy making. PADM 4221 - Issues/Urban Admin (3) Politics, administration, and public policy in urban context; administrative aspects of selected governmental policy making processes; interrelationships of governments at various levels; urban challenges facing modern public administrators. PADM 4225 - Application/Urban Admin (3) Tools and strategies of public and nonprofit administration to accomplish collective purposes, develop communities, enhance civic capacity toward improved quality of life in urban settings. PADM 4226 - Intro Nonprofit Organizations (3) Critical understanding of historical development and impact of public sector, dynamic environment of nonprofit organization and current issues of importance to nonprofit decision makers. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 1020 or equivalent; junior or senior standing. PADM 4227 - Issues/Nonprofit Admin (3) Unique aspects of using financial information in nonprofit administration; principles and practices of nonprofit managerial and financial accounting; nonprofit budget and control issues; analysis of nonprofit financial statements. PREREQUISITE: PADM 4226. PADM 4228 - Grant Development/Management (3) Elements of grant writing process; skills to seek, solicit, and receive grant awards from foundation and government sources; administration of awards to meet goals of recipient and granting agency. PADM 4231 - Admin Internship (3-12) (Same as POLS 4231). Supervised internship working with administrative branches of national, state, or local governments. Seminar sessions to discuss and analyze problems with which interns are working. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credits. PREREQUISITE: permission of division. PADM 4401 - Comparative Public Adm (3) Examination of differing concepts and perspectives of public administration; variability in administrative systems, political power and control over public bureaucracies, education and recruitment of public bureaucrats; bureaucratic concept of public interest and responsiveness to the public. PADM 4412 - Neighborhood Dev/Social Entrep (3) (Same as ANTH 4412). Role of various institutions and their relationship to developmental needs of inner city neighborhoods; evolution of American cities as context for understanding urban neighborhoods and poverty; role of government and foundations in shaping policy at local level; rise of neighborhood associations and non-profits as extensions of family values; contributing to better understanding of neighborhoods and various intervention strategies. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .