#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/engr/biom.php
BIOM Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning BIOM Courses BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING (BIOM) NOTE: Students taking Engineering courses will be charged an additional $25 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: BIOM 6900-6919. Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering I. (1-3). Topics are varied and are announced in the online class listings. BIOM 7900-7920–8900-8920. Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. BIOM 6110 - Science of Medicine (3) Integration of fundamental principles from physics, chemistry, biology and mathematics, and applications of these principles to solve problems in medicine. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 1120, BIOL 1120, PHYS 2120, or permission of instructor. BIOM 6150 - Engr Tools Design Med Devices (3) Major tools that engineers use to assist them in producing good medical device products, and how and where these tools are being used in industry. PREREQUISITE: BIOM 2810 or CIVIL 2131, BIOL 1120, MECH 3320, or permission of instructor. BIOM 6205 - Intro Biomed and Chem Sensors (3) Measurement techniques, recognition processes; application of chemical sensors and biosensors for analysis of real samples. BIOM 6210 - Research Studies (1-3) Consultation, reading, laboratory, and design work to investigate selected areas of biomedical engineering under supervision of faculty member, emphasizing laboratory work, design, and scientific writing. Formal paper required. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOM 6393 - Appld Finite Element Analysis (3) (Same as MECH 6393). Fundamental topics associated with use of finite element analysis in mechanical and biomedical engineering applications; introduction to finite element theory, model generation, CAD interfacing, post-processing of results and validation. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3322. BIOM 6702 - Biotechn Tools for BME Res (3) Biochemical and biophysical measurement techniques; light spectroscopy, gel exclusion and affinity chromatography, electrophoresis, ELISA, protein and DNA methods. 6 hours lab. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1120, 2011 or 2021, CHEM 1120/1121, and BIOM 2720, or permission of instructor BIOM 6720 - Bioelectricity (4) Biolelectricity, including calculations of potential fields resulting from cardiac or neural electrogeneration, treatment of how heart and nerves generate and propagate electrical signals. PREREQUISITE: Permissions of instructor. BIOM 6750 - Biomechanics (4) Application of mechanical principles to the human body, with focus on joint function, muscle force transmission and generation, gait, soft-tissue mechanics, injury mechanisms and risk, and experimental measurements. PREREQUISITE: MECH 2332, 3320, or permission of instructor. COREQUISITE: BIOL 3730. BIOM 7004 - Life Sciences Biom I (3) This introduction and application to aspects of the entire body provides engineers and physical scientists with an understanding of aspects of the chemical, physical, and mechanical basis of cell shape, function, and motility; integrated treatment of topics in cellular biochemistry, protein synthesis, energy releasing pathways, and membrane biophysics. BIOM 7005 - Life Sciences Biom II (3) Continuation of 7004-8004. An introduction for engineers and physical scientists to aspects of systemic physiology with an emphasis on and connections to biomedical engineering. BIOM 7101 - Biomed Engr Analysis I (3) Analytical and numerical solution techniques used in analysis of biomedical engineering problems; introduction to modern computational software packages for experience with modern problem-solving methods. BIOM 7103 - Theory Continuous Media (3) Analysis of stress and deformation at a point; derivation of the fundamental equations in tensor notation by application of the basic laws of conservation of mass, energy, and momentum in mechanics and thermodynamics. BIOM 7105 - Physlgcl Control Sys (3) Modeling, representation, and analysis of physiological control systems, using control theory techniques; application will be modeling and control problems in cellular and general physiology; introduces basic concepts of control systems (transfer functions, feedback control system using root locus, frequency response methods); discusses various biological systems and their natural and driven control mechanisms. PREREQUISITES: BIOM 7004-8004 and 7005-8005 or permission of instructor. BIOM 7110 - Biostatistics (3) Introduction to statistical techniques used for analysis of basic and clinical biomedical engineering data; sampling theory, hypothesis testing, ANOVA, and nonparametric techniques. BIOM 7114 - Professional Dvlpmnt (3) Weekly presentations of biomedical engineering research by visiting faculty and invited speakers; weekly presentations by graduate students and discussions of graduate student research in journal clubs; required of all full-time graduate students. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOM 7116 - Math Model Biol Phenomn (3) Applications of mathematics to the understanding of biological systems in biomedical engineering and modern biology; basic concepts of mathematical modeling development and validation; realistic examples of mathematical models in biology. BIOM 7203 - Bioelectricity (3) Introduction to electrical propagation through human tissue; membrane biophysics, action potentials, subthreshold stimuli, electrophysiology of heart, and neuromuscular junction. BIOM 7209 - Biom Msrmnt/Instrmnt (3) Measurement techniques applicable in biomedical engineering; data acquisition system, mechanical instrumentation, interface systems, signal analyses; biocompatibility requirements. BIOM 7222 - Biosensors (3) Provides graduate and upper-level students deeper understanding of chemical sensors and biosensors, with special emphasis on electrochemical biosensors and their in-vivo applications. The lectures and laboratory work will provide the theoretical basis and hands-on experience with macro and micro sensors and their fabrications. BIOM 7301 - Functional Anatomy I (1) Application of engineering principles to functional anatomy and pathological processes of the axial and appendicular skeleton with focus on hip/pelvis, knee, foot and ankle anatomy and applied biomechanics. BIOM 7302 - Functional Anatomy II (1) Application of engineering principles to functional anatomy and pathological processes of the axial and appendicular skeleton with focus on spine, shoulder, elbow, wrist and hand functional anatomy and applied biomechanics. BIOM 7303 - Mvmnt/Jnt/Implnt Mech (3) The course consists of the following sections; muscle and bone anthoropometry; kinetics: the link model, mechanical work, energy, and power; kinematics and dynamics of rigid bodies; and the development of mechanically equivalent models of the human musculoskeletal system. BIOM 7305 - Adv Image Instrmntn (3) Presents both a general overview of the field of digital radiographic imaging and an in-depth treatment of one particular type, the Kinestatic Charge Detector imaging systems. Topics include the parameterization image quality, physics, and electronics of detection gases. PREREQUISITES: BIOM 7501-8501 and BIOM 7501-8502. BIOM 7313 - Biomechanics II (3) Modern development of biomechanics at advanced mathematical level; dynamics of the lung, blood flow, microcirculation, and muscle mechanics. BIOM 7331 - Advnces Orthopedic Biom (3) The course consists of a sequence of lectures devoted to special topics including: biomechanical analysis and function of upper extremity, lower extremity, and spine joint systems of the human body; and fracture healing and bone remodeling, bone regeneration, function of cartilage, and biomechanics of tendon, ligament, and meniscus. BIOM 7408 - Biochemical Engineering (3) Application of engineering principles to effect biochemical transformation through use of living cells, subcellular organelles or enzymes; overview of biotechnology, bioreactor design; cell energetics, enzyme kinetics, Michelis-Menton calculations, immobilized cells; biosensors and process control. BIOM 7430 - Biomaterials (3) Introduction to materials used in biomedical engineering; biocompatibility and uses of implantable materials such as ceramics, polyethylene, metals, composites and other materials. BIOM 7432 - Advanced Biomaterials (3) Materials used in biomedical applications in relationship to corrosion, crack propagation, creep, and related topics; tissue ingrowth into materials. BIOM 7452 - Fluid Mech Biomed Engr (3) Elements of hydrodynamics with applications to flow in biomedical systems; basic principles of continuity and Navier-Stokes equations; ideal and viscous flow, boundary layer solutions, fluid wave behavior; viscosity of plasma, blood, and viscoelastic fluids, principles of viscometry. BIOM 7460 - Cell Adhesion (3) Biophysical and biochemical principles governing cell adhesion; integrin and selectin cell adhesion molecules; interactions between leukocytes and tumore cells with endothelium; measurement and modeling of cell adhesion phenomena. BIOM 7470 - Tissue Engineering (3) Overview of the fundamental principles and current applications of tissue engineering in medicine and health care; topics include bone and cartilage analogs, synthetic skin grafts, cell encapsulation systems, and biohybrid vascular grafts. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOM 7480 - Expr Tech Cell/Tis Engr (3) Application and techniques of cell culture/tissue engineering including sterile technique and cell/biochemical measurements and instrumentation; topics include sterile technique, light spectroscopy, protein purification and analysis, PCR, chromatography and electrophoresis BIOM 7501 - Medical Imaging (3) Introduction to theory and physics of medical imaging, basic elements of interactions of radiation with matter; analysis of nuclear magnetic resonance and ultrasound imaging techniques. BIOM 7502 - Medical Imaging II (3) Continuation of 7501-8501. Advanced methods in medical imaging; theory and application of magnetic resonance, ultrasonic, nuclear medicine, and X-ray imaging techniques for biomedical engineers. BIOM 7580 - Molecular Imaging (3) BIOM 7721 - Clin/Indust Intern BME (3) Independent study for biomedical engineering students; investigation in at least one area selected from a master list and approved by the student's advisor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. BIOM 7730 - Supervised Research I (1-12) Collaborative research with faculty that includes planning, design, execution, analysis, and presentation of research activities related to student's thesis or dissertation work. Unlimited repeatability. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOM 7740 - Supervised Research II (3) Collaborative research with faculty that includes planning, design, execution, analysis, and presentation of research activities related to student's Master's thesis. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. BIOM 7760 - Recent Adv & Crit Rev in BME (1-3) Discussion of recent advances in biomedical engineering and development of critical reading and writing skills. Oral and written reports required. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours. PRE-REQUISITE: Permission of instructor. NOTE: This course cannot be used to fulfill degree requirements. BIOM 7901 - Bioelectronics (3) (EECE 7901-8901) This course teaches bioelectronic sensors, amplifiers and signal conditioning techniques. Specific topics include microfabricated sensors and actuators, hard and soft fabrication techniques, bulk and surface micromachining, self-assembled monolayer, bioMEMS, microfluids, lab-on-a-chip, microarrays, carbon nanotubes, grapheme, neural implants, flexible and epidermal electronics, wireless telemetry, biorobotics and drug delivery systems. Topics will cover invasive, minimally invasive, body-worn, wearable, and remote electronic systems. BIOM 7991 - Project I (1-3) Independent study in Biomedical Engineering on topic selected in conjunction with instructor. Oral and written reports required. May be used for curricular training as a part of an internship program. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. BIOM 7992 - Project II (1-3) Independent investigation of problem selected in consultation with instructor. Oral and written reports required. May be used for curricular training as a part of an internship program. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. BIOM 7996 - Masters Thesis (1-12) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOM 8004 - Life Sciences Biom I (3) This introduction and application to aspects of the entire body provides engineers and physical scientists with an understanding of aspects of the chemical, physical, and mechanical basis of cell shape, function, and motility; integrated treatment of topics in cellular biochemistry, protein synthesis, energy releasing pathways, and membrane biophysics. BIOM 8005 - Life Sciences Biom II (3) Continuation of 7004-8004. An introduction for engineers and physical scientists to aspects of systemic physiology with an emphasis on and connections to biomedical engineering. BIOM 8101 - Biomed Engr Analysis I (3) Analytical and numerical solution techniques used in analysis of biomedical engineering problems; introduction to modern computational software packages for experience with modern problem-solving methods. BIOM 8103 - Theory Continuous Media (3) Analysis of stress and deformation at a point; derivation of the fundamental equations in tensor notation by application of the basic laws of conservation of mass, energy, and momentum in mechanics and thermodynamics. BIOM 8105 - Physlgcl Control Sys (3) Modeling, representation, and analysis of physiological control systems, using control theory techniques; application will be modeling and control problems in cellular and general physiology; introduces basic concepts of control systems (transfer functions, feedback control system using root locus, frequency response methods); discusses various biological systems and their natural and driven control mechanisms. PREREQUISITES: BIOM 7004-8004 and 7005-8005 or permission of instructor. BIOM 8110 - Biostatistics (3) Introduction to statistical techniques used for analysis of basic and clinical biomedical engineering data; sampling theory, hypothesis testing, ANOVA, and nonparametric techniques. BIOM 8114 - Professional Dvlpmnt (3) Weekly presentations of biomedical engineering research by visiting faculty and invited speakers; weekly presentations by graduate students and discussions of graduate student research in journal clubs; required of all full-time graduate students. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOM 8116 - Math Model Biol Phenomn (3) Applications of mathematics to the understanding of biological systems in biomedical engineering and modern biology; basic concepts of mathematical modeling development and validation; realistic examples of mathematical models in biology. BIOM 8203 - Bioelectricity (3) Introduction to electrical propagation through human tissue; membrane biophysics, action potentials, subthreshold stimuli, electrophysiology of heart, and neuromuscular junction. BIOM 8209 - Biom Msrmnt/Instrmnt (3) Measurement techniques applicable in biomedical engineering; data acquisition system, mechanical instrumentation, interface systems, signal analyses; biocompatibility requirements. BIOM 8222 - Biosensors (3) Provides graduate and upper-level students deeper understanding of chemical sensors and biosensors, with special emphasis on electrochemical biosensors and their in-vivo applications. The lectures and laboratory work will provide the theoretical basis and hands-on experience with macro and micro sensors and their fabrications. BIOM 8301 - Functional Anatomy I (1) Application of engineering principles to functional anatomy and pathological processes of the axial and appendicular skeleton with focus on hip/pelvis, knee, foot and ankle anatomy and applied biomechanics. BIOM 8302 - Functional Anatomy II (1) Application of engineering principles to functional anatomy and pathological processes of the axial and appendicular skeleton with focus on spine, shoulder, elbow, wrist and hand functional anatomy and applied biomechanics. BIOM 8303 - Mvmnt/Jnt/Implnt Mech (3) The course consists of the following sections; muscle and bone anthoropometry; kinetics: the link model, mechanical work, energy, and power; kinematics and dynamics of rigid bodies; and the development of mechanically equivalent models of the human musculoskeletal system. BIOM 8305 - Adv Image Instrmntn (3) Presents both a general overview of the field of digital radiographic imaging and an in-depth treatment of one particular type, the Kinestatic Charge Detector imaging systems. Topics include the parameterization image quality, physics, and electronics of detection gases. PREREQUISITES: BIOM 7501-8501 and BIOM 7501-8502. BIOM 8313 - Biomechanics II (3) Modern development of biomechanics at advanced mathematical level; dynamics of the lung, blood flow, microcirculation, and muscle mechanics. BIOM 8331 - Advnces Orthopedic Biom (3) The course consists of a sequence of lectures devoted to special topics including: biomechanical analysis and function of upper extremity, lower extremity, and spine joint systems of the human body; and fracture healing and bone remodeling, bone regeneration, function of cartilage, and biomechanics of tendon, ligament, and meniscus. BIOM 8408 - Biochemical Engineering (3) Application of engineering principles to effect biochemical transformation through use of living cells, subcellular organelles or enzymes; overview of biotechnology, bioreactor design; cell energetics, enzyme kinetics, Michelis-Menton calculations, immobilized cells; biosensors and process control. BIOM 8430 - Biomaterials (3) Introduction to materials used in biomedical engineering; biocompatibility and uses of implantable materials such as ceramics, polyethylene, metals, composites and other materials. BIOM 8432 - Advanced Biomaterials (3) Materials used in biomedical applications in relationship to corrosion, crack propagation, creep, and related topics; tissue ingrowth into materials. BIOM 8452 - Fluid Mech Biomed Engr (3) Elements of hydrodynamics with applications to flow in biomedical systems; basic principles of continuity and Navier-Stokes equations; ideal and viscous flow, boundary layer solutions, fluid wave behavior; viscosity of plasma, blood, and viscoelastic fluids, principles of viscometry. BIOM 8460 - Cell Adhesion (3) Biophysical and biochemical principles governing cell adhesion; integrin and selectin cell adhesion molecules; interactions between leukocytes and tumore cells with endothelium; measurement and modeling of cell adhesion phenomena. BIOM 8470 - Tissue Engineering (3) Overview of the fundamental principles and current applications of tissue engineering in medicine and health care; topics include bone and cartilage analogs, synthetic skin grafts, cell encapsulation systems, and biohybrid vascular grafts. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. BIOM 8480 - Expr Tech Cell/Tis Engr (3) Application and techniques of cell culture/tissue engineering including sterile technique and cell/biochemical measurements and instrumentation; topics include sterile technique, light spectroscopy, protein purification and analysis, PCR, chromatography and electrophoresis BIOM 8501 - Medical Imaging (3) Introduction to theory and physics of medical imaging, basic elements of interactions of radiation with matter; analysis of nuclear magnetic resonance and ultrasound imaging techniques. BIOM 8502 - Medical Imaging II (3) Continuation of 7501-8501. Advanced methods in medical imaging; theory and application of magnetic resonance, ultrasonic, nuclear medicine, and X-ray imaging techniques for biomedical engineers. BIOM 8580 - Molecular Imaging (3) BIOM 8721 - Clin/Indust Intern Bme (3) Independent study for biomedical engineering students; investigation in at least one area selected from a master list and approved by the student's advisor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. BIOM 8730 - Supervised Research I (1-12) Collaborative research with faculty that includes planning, design, execution, analysis, and presentation of research activities related to student's thesis or dissertation work. Unlimited repeatability. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BIOM 8750 - Supervised Research III (3) Collaborative research with faculty that includes planning, design, execution, analysis, and presentation of research activities related to student's doctoral dissertation. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. BIOM 8760 - Recent Adv & Crit Rev in BME (1-3) Discussion of recent advances in biomedical engineering and development of critical reading and writing skills. Oral and written reports required. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours. PRE-REQUISITE: Permission of instructor BIOM 8901 - Bioelectronics (3) (EECE 7901-8901) This course teaches bioelectronic sensors, amplifiers and signal conditioning techniques. Specific topics include microfabricated sensors and actuators, hard and soft fabrication techniques, bulk and surface micromachining, self-assembled monolayer, bioMEMS, microfluids, lab-on-a-chip, microarrays, carbon nanotubes, grapheme, neural implants, flexible and epidermal electronics, wireless telemetry, biorobotics and drug delivery systems. Topics will cover invasive, minimally invasive, body-worn, wearable, and remote electronic systems. BIOM 8991 - Project I (1-3) Independent study in Biomedical Engineering on topic selected in conjunction with instructor. Oral and written reports required. May be used for curricular training as a part of an internship program. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. BIOM 8992 - Project II (1-3) Independent investigation of problem selected in consultation with instructor. Oral and written reports required. May be used for curricular training as a part of an internship program. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. BIOM 9000 - Dissertation (1-12) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .