#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/staff/podzorski.php
Patricia V. Podzorski, Ph.D. - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Staff Corcoran Roberson Podzorski Brand Onstine Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Staff Patricia V. Podzorski, Ph.D. Patricia V. Podzorski, Ph.D. Curator of Egyptian Art Ph.D., University of California at Berkeley, Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology, 1994 Address: Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology University of Memphis 215 CFA Building Memphis, TN 38152-3200 E-mail: ppodzrsk@memphis.edu Office telephone: 901.678.2649 Dr. Podzorski is Curator for the ancient Egyptian collection of the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology at the University of Memphis. She also teaches graduate and undergraduate courses on ancient Egyptian art and language, as well as museum studies. At the University of Memphis she is a member of the Advisory Committee for the Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies and is an associate member of the graduate faculty. RESEARCH INTERESTS: Ancient technology; material culture; ceramics; Predynastic Egypt; Middle and Late Egyptian; curation; museography; human osteology; archaeological methodology PUBLICATIONS: Monographs: Sunnyside Wildlife Area Cultural Resources Site Survey, with contributions by A.R. Blukis Onat, G. Bishop, J. Butler and S. Davis. B.O.A.S., Inc., Seattle, WA, 1998. Their Bones Shall Not Perish. An Examination of Human Skeletal Remains from Naga-ed-Der in Egypt. SIA Publishing, New Malden, Surrey, England, 1990. Dissertation: The Northern Cemetery at Ballas in Upper Egypt: A Study of the Middle and Late Predynastic Remains. University of California at Berkeley, 1994. Select Articles: "The Eyes Have It: A Figured Ostracon in the Museum of Art and Archaeology, University of Missouri–Columbia." In Gedenkschrift Keller. Essays in Memory of Cathleen A. Keller , Deanna Kiser-Go, Carol Redmount and Eugene Cruz-Uribe, eds., in press. "Nag el-Der." In Encyclopedia of Ancient History , R. Bagnall, et al, eds., Blackwell Publishing, Ltd., London, 2013. "Ceramic Offering Tables of the Late Predynastic and Early Dynastic." In Thebes and Beyond. Studies in Honour of Kent R. Weeks . Supplément aux Annales du Service des Antiquités de l'Égypte, Cahier No. 41, Z. Hawass and S. Ikram, eds., Supreme Council of Antiquities, Cairo, 2011. "The Early Dynastic Mastabas of Naga ed-Deir," Archéo-Nil. La naissance de l'architecture funéraire, No. 18. Paris, 2008. "77. Biconical Juglet, Tell el-Yahudiyah Ware," "79. Scarab," "80. Scaraboid," and "81. Scarab." In Testament of Time: A Catalog of Ancient Palestinian Objects in the Collection of the Museum of Art and Archaeology, University of Missouri, Jane C. Biers and James H. Terry, eds., Fairleigh Dickinson University Press, 2004. "Incense burners of the late Predynastic period in Egypt: an examination of the evidence from three sites." In Egyptian Pottery: Proceedings of the 1990 Pottery Symposium at the University of California, Berkeley, C. Redmount and C.A. Keller, eds., Contributions of the University of California Archaeological Research Facility Berkeley 58 / University of California Publications in Egyptian Archaeology 8. Archaeological Research Facility, University of California at Berkeley, 2003. "Naga ed-Deir." In The Oxford Encyclopedia of Ancient Egypt, D. Redford, ed., Oxford University Press, London and New York, 2001. "Early Egyptian human remains: retrieval, conservation and analysis," Newsletter of the American Research Center in Egypt, No. 179, Fall 2000. "George A. Reisner" and "Naqada." In The Oxford Encyclopedia of Archaeology in the Near East, E. M. Meyers, ed., Oxford University Press, London and New York, 1997. "The correlation of skeletal remains and burial goods: an example from Naga-ed-Der 7000." In Biological Anthropology and the Study of Ancient Egypt, W. Vivian Davies and Roxie Walker, eds., British Museum Press, London, 1993. "Artifacts excavated by the Hearst Expedition from the fort at El-Ahaiwah," Cahier de Recherches de l'Institut de Papyrologie et d'Égyptologie, No. 11. Lille, France, 1989. "Predynastic Egyptian seals of known provenience in the R.H. Lowie Museum of Anthropology," Journal of Near Eastern Studies, 1988. "Identification of some Egyptian wood artifacts in the Lowie Museum of Anthropology," with J. Knudsen and N. Rem, MASCA Journal, June 1985. Staff Corcoran Roberson Podzorski Brand Onstine Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .