#http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/academicprograms/MFA/mfaapplicationprocess.php
MFA Application Process - Theatre &amp; Dance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Theatre &amp; Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Academic Programs Undergraduate BFA About the BFA Performance Musical Theatre Design/Technical Production Graduate MFA About the MFA MFA Curriculum Assistantships Application Process Home Theatre &amp; Dance Programs MFA Application Process To the prospective student from Janice Benning Lacek(Design Technology) and Sarah Brown (Directing) Co-Directors of Graduate Studies: Thank you for your interest in our graduate programs in the Department of Theatre &amp; Dance! We are now accepting applications in all areas for students looking to begin study in Fall Semester, 2016. Applying to our program is a two-part process. Applicants must apply to the University's Graduate School. 1. Apply Here . Applicants must also apply directly to the Department of Theatre &amp; Dance. 2. Apply Here Applicants are encouraged to contact Kristin Shupe, Administrative Secretary. (901-678-2523) Kristin will coordinate contact with an appropriate faculty member once we receive your completed departmental application. Those invited to campus will have a one-hour interview with appropriate faculty in your area of interest, a tour of our facilities, and tickets to an evening performance of our current production. If you are not able to come to our campus, other opportunities for interviews with members of our faculty are available at the following conferences: SETC in Greensboro, NC Wednesday, March 2 – Saturday March 5, 2016 and USITT in Salt Lake City, Utah, Wednesday, March 16 – Saturday, March 19, 2016. If you are unable to travel, a formal telephone or skype interview will be scheduled for you with the appropriate faculty members. Typically, all decisions regarding graduate admissions and assignment of graduate assistantships for the upcoming academic year are made by mid-March. We encourage you to file your applications early with both Graduate Admissions and the Department of Theatre &amp; Dance. Academic Programs Undergraduate BFA About the BFA Performance Musical Theatre Design/Technical Production Graduate MFA About the MFA MFA Curriculum Assistantships Application Process 2015-2016 Season Join us for our 2015-2016 Theatre &amp; Dance Season Purchase tickets to Next to Normal Next to Normal is an awarding winning pop rock musical with soul. Driven by an incredible score, the riveting story unmasks the seemingly normal facade of a suburban family. Watch Me – Theatre Video Take a closer look at the UofM Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Anthony Pellecchia Meet our new lighting and sound designer Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .