#http://www.memphis.edu/advising/parents/questions.php
Questions and Topics for Discussion - Advising - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Academic Advising About Find My Advisor Students Parents Advisors Contact Us For Parents Helping Your Student Parents of New College Students Questions and Topics UofM Parent Site What Can Parents Do Helpful Links Academic Calender Bursar Financial Aid Residence Life Scholarships Home Advising For Parents Questions and Topics for Discussion Ways to check in with your student throughout the year. Suggested Topics For Discussion between parent &amp; Student We encourage parents to maintain communication with their student throughout the year. See the list of questions and topics below to discuss with your student based on the time of year. July As the summer winds down, students should be preparing for the upcoming year. If your student will be a freshman, take some time to discuss what you both learned at Orientation and how you can use this information to have a successful freshman year. Help your student look at fall classes and discuss a weekly schedule to help manage classes, studying, work and social activities. For returning students, take time to help them assess the past year and prepare for the coming year. Encourage them to think about participating in an internship or studying abroad. August August is a very important time of the year. Students should take time to settle into their new classes and make sure they get the books and supplies they need to succeed during this semester in college. College students experience much greater freedom than in high school. However, they are also held more accountable for their actions and decisions. Rarely does a professor ask twice for assignments or question absences. With an increased opportunity for distractions, time management becomes more important. Encourage your student to be responsible for his or her education. There is no better time than now to get your student off to a good start. September Students often utilize the month of September to explore campus and get involved. Joining clubs and organizations looks great on a resume and can build great friendships that will last a lifetime. The University of Memphis currently has more than 180 Registered Student Organizations (RSO) and the numbers are growing every day. Your student needs ongoing encouragement as he or she goes through the college experience. As a parent, you know your student better than professors, peers or college staff, and you know his or her limitations. You are often in the best position to encourage and support behaviors October In October, students begin experiencing exciting and challenging situations that they need to learn to handle on their own. As a parent, try to avoid rushing in; instead, think of the college experience as your student's job. Offer support, answer questions and point him or her toward the right resources. Parents should use the opportunity to help their student become more independent. November By November, exams and papers may begin piling up. Students can sometimes acquire poor eating or sleeping habits, increased stress and other factors that may require the help of Student Health Services. Keep in mind that an active mind needs a healthy body, so encourage your student to find ways of relieving stress, keeping active and staying healthy while at college. Remember, there are people at the UofM who want to help. Parents and students should talk about challenges that come up. December December can be very stressful for students as the semester comes to a close. If students need help, they should look to those who have experience with tests, be it their parents, brothers and sisters who have taken the same class, friends, or a tutor. The University has a dedicated staff of advisors who will do everything they can to help with scheduling, registration, and academic issues. You and your student may feel excited and anxious. It is important to remember that students keep their own schedule at school. This may conflict with parental expectations about family activities, so it is helpful to discuss these expectations prior to your student returning home. January Many students think of January as a new beginning, a time to improve upon the previous semester. Your student's new freedom will also require new responsibilities, especially when it comes to managing finances. Talk with your student about these responsibilities often. Having a checking account or credit card may be a completely new experience for your student. You may want to have a conversation about budgeting expenses, spending habits and paying for their education. February In February, students will now be a month into the second semester of the year. If your student is unhappy with any of his or her courses and is considering dropping a class, be sure this is done by the deadline. Please visit for dates and deadlines. If students joined any clubs or organizations in the fall, they may wish to rejoin that club this semester. If a particular club wasn't right for the student, encourage him or her to look around for other clubs that the UofM has to offer. March The semester is now midway through and this is often a very exciting and busy time for students. Many plan to go away for spring break. Parents should remind students to be safe while having fun. Keep in touch with those they travel with and keep in mind that classes will resume after break. Remind your student that, while spring is a time for much social activity, balance is also important. April Your student's year is coming to an end. This is the most important time for students, as they prepare for final exams. The term is drawing to a close which means your student may soon be coming home for summer break. After students receive their grades, they should ask themselves if they are happy with their academic performance. The semester break is a great time to assess their performance, identifying areas for possible improvement. May The UofM offers a wide range of classes for students who are interested in getting ahead of the game. Taking a summer class is a great way for students to keep their academic skills sharp. Most classes last four to six weeks. Although some students may find the rigorous pace of summer classes intimidating, the rewards of being closer to graduation can make it worth the extra effort. June The time to plan for the future is now. If your student did not do as well academically as he or she had hoped to do during finals, encourage your student to evaluate the year. Look for ways they can improve next year. Students should be proud of their accomplishments and use them to motivate themselves as they continue their college career. For Parents Helping Your Student Parents of New College Students Questions and Topics UofM Parent Site What Can Parents Do Helpful Links Academic Calender Bursar Financial Aid Residence Life Scholarships UMdegree Worksheet and planner for information about academic requirements. Courses to Consider Course recommendations just for you! Appointment - Plus Make your advising appointment today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .