#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mktg/2015FMKTG3340001.pdf
Course Syllabus MKTG 3340 - 0 01 - Principles of Social Media Commerce Fall - 2015 FCB 267, M/W 5:30 6:55pm 3 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8 / 23 /15) Instructor: Dr. Tracy Cosenza University e - mail: tracy.cosenza@memphis.edu Office: F AB 210 Office Hours: M/W 12:00 12:30 pm, 5:00 - 5:30pm, and h appily by appointment. This course will be managed through social media contact points specifically set up for this class and the MKTG 3340 class website at https:elearn.memphis.edu (course materials uploaded here). Facebook: Tracy Cosenza (closed group : MKTG 3340 - 001 ) LinkedIn: Tracy Cosenza (search) Course Overview Social media is a fast - growing, ever - evolving, innovative, and entrepreneurial space . D espite its increasing ubiquity, is not well understood from a strategic marketing perspective. M arketers, managers, and consultants , who stay abreast of the constant innovation and new ways of doing things , have the potential to develop highly innovative, effective, and value - creating marketing strategies that use social media in conjunction with other types of media and promotions. This course covers advertising, marketing, and communications strategies in the new media landscape where traditional me dia (e.g. television and print) and the online social media platforms (i.e., the Web ; e.g., online social networks, user - generated content, blogs, forums) co - exist. We will look at the current media landscape and the opportunities and challenges that it a ffords marketers, managers, and consultants who are concerned with how to efficiently an d effectively advertise/promote their company, brands , and products. Catalog Description: How social media impacts marketing strategy, brand development, return on in vestment, and other fundamental business concepts; using social media to effectively convey messages and engage constituents. Pre - Requisites / Co Requisites: There are no course pre - requisites to enrolling in this course. Required Text: Social Media Ma rketing by Tracy L. Tuten and Michael R . Solomon 2e (Sage Publications ) ISBN 9781473913011 Recommended Reading: Mashable: . mashable.com Social Media Examiner: Fast Company: Social Media Today Wired TechCrunch CNET News net.com/news/ Clickz Learning Objectives , Process, and Evaluation Matrix after completing this course, students can: Learning Objective Process Evaluation Describe the overall nature of successful best practices of social media marketing ( SMM ) in all practical configurations Discuss I to I, B to C, C to C, C to B, B to B SMM with video examples and scenario outcomes. Exam, Class Participation, Identify by analysis - current and future trends in social media platforms Platform and use Exam, Class Participation, Project Identify by analysis current best practices and future trends in use of platforms to perform successful SMM Platform by application to conf igurations Exam, Project Employ some of the basic tools of SMM . Application by SMM objective, configuration. Exam, Class participation, Project Understand and evaluate SMM programs that emphasize brand management Discuss by example various brand management SMM examples including brand crisis management Exam, Class Participation, Use SMM tools and basic metrics to evaluate SMM programs Examples and basic use of SMM Monitoring and metrics platforms Exam, Monitoring and Analytics Activities, projects Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program: Grading Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points toward your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how your overall (final) letter grades will be computed. Final Course Grade : This course is NOT +/ - and the scale is: Point Range Assigned Grade 900 - 1000 * A 800 - 899* B 700 - 799 * C 600 - 699 * D Below 600 * F * I do math. Your final grade must fall within a range to receive that grade. The end of the semester. All late work will be reduced by one full letter grade per day beginning i mmediately after the deadline. Thus, a project due at 5:30 pm on W (required submission day) but submitted between 5:31 W and 5:29 R (after the required submission day) will be reduced by one letter grade, and so on for each day after. Do not ask for an ex ception. All project instructions are listed on ecourseware as individual documents at the beginning of the semester . Due dates are listed on the class schedule loaded on ecourseware. Plan accordingly! Treat this class as you would any professional commitment. until the last minute to complete assignment Summary of Graded Activities : Your final grade will be determined on the following basis (using a denominator of 1000 pts) . Each aspect of your grade will be detailed on the following pages: Deliverable Total Points Exam 1 150 Exam 2 150 Class Participation (should be ) 100 [1] Class Leadership Platform Tutorial 100 [2] Monitoring Projects (4) 225 [3] Monitoring Proposal/Presentation (75/125) 200 [4] Activities Foursquare/LinkedIn (25/50) 75 Total 1000 Formal Assessed Activities : Exams There will be two exams in various formats, including but not limited to MC, T/F, short answer, and essay. The exam dates are stated on the class schedule uploaded to ecourseware. Class Participation This class will be hands - in class discussions about our collaborative efforts in our study of best practices social media use with various businesses/brands/products, various platforms, and current social media topics. Your class participation and collaboration is not only appreciated, it is expected. It will be graded on a class by class basis. Your Participation Assessment current with the assigned readings and personal, external knowledge acquisition of choice. Toward this objective, please come to class prepared and r eady to respond if called upon. These are the standards for evaluating participation: 1. Relevance to the discussion 2. Move the discussion forward 3. Courtesy in discussion do you respe ctfully consider ideas offered by classmates? 4. Can you back up your viewpoint with data, research, theory, etc.? [1] Class Leadership Assignments [ SMM Platform Tutorial presentation] The world of Social Media Marketing is dynamic changing daily. In this class, we will be addressing top ical areas that are both bas ic and trending. The class leadership presentation s/discussions will be the basis for our analyzing a topical area. You will choose one platform to be delivered as a PPT pre sentation on the day the related topic is scheduled . Details for this assignment are posted on t he [2] Individual Monitoring Projects ( 4 ) You will be asked to complete four social media assignments that will help to familiariz e you with a variety of social media tools and how they can be applied in a business communication plan . These exercises will require that you create specific social media accounts for this class (or , i n some cases, use accounts you already have). Details for this assignment are posted on the class Started. All assignments are uploaded to ecourseware before the semester begins. You have ample time to seek clarification before the due date; therefore , I will not answer quest ions within 24 hours of the deadline . I encourage you to use the FB group to solicit clarification from your classmates. All assignments will be submitted as a hardcopy, in class, on the day they are due. [3] Team Social Media Monitoring Project Proposa l / Presentation In our class, we will be using social media tools and analytics to analyze how a company uses social media to market its products, service, brand, etc. , monitor social media conversations about the product/company, and evaluate the ir social media effect on competitive position. Details for this assignment Getting Started Proposal: Choosing the Company, Brand/Product : [3.1] ( 7 5 pts) Presentation : [3. 2 ] ( 1 2 5 pts) [4 .1 ] Foursquare Activity We will participate in this location - based social network and give our own University a boost by helping creating a social city guide for the UM area. In addition, we will evaluate the impact our participation has on local business and the brand of our uni versity. [ 4.2 ] LinkedIn Activity We will consider our personal brand strate gy and begin formalizing it by creating or refining a LinkedIn page. The activity will also require participation in LinkedIn groups and finding (not applying for) job prospects and /or internships . Course Policies E - mail All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive official course correspondence (individual or group notification) at this email account. If you do not check your .edu account consistently, bounce it to your preferred account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in responsib ility. Please DO NOT use the email link in ec ourseware to correspond with me. It does not allow me to respond to you on my digital devices, thus, I never check it. Email me directly at the above noted account. I will make every effort to respond to your emails within two (2) business days. Also note as previously stated we will use a closed Facebook group for this course. I strongly recommend you use this space to your advantage. Fellow classmates may get to your questions before I do and may have insi ghts to Class Attendance Attendance is both expected and considered necessary to adequate ly complete the course. You are responsible for all material covered in class or assigned, regardless of the reaso n for absence. Class participation (see above) will be based on the assumption that you have read all assigned material prior to attending the session in which it is discussed. I t should go without saying, please be on time . For students receiving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attendance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. Cheating, Plagiarism, or Student Misconduct clarification, refer to your Student Handbook in the academic misconduct section of the Code of Student Conduct and Disciplinary Procedures. If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelma n page on academic integrity: . [Note: u rred, I may take steps as described on the Office of Student Conduct website ] Smartphones and other D igital Devices in Class The use of smartphones or any other devices in class is prohibited, unless specifically related to current classwork. Please turn these off before class starts. Interaction with Instructor I will be delighted to set up an appointment to meet with you , in my office, at a mutually convenient time. See me before or after class or e - mail me to make an appointment. Please note that , due to other commitments, I cannot Remember, if you are having a problem with the material or wit anything about it. Students with Disabilities Under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act, qualified students with disabilities are entitled to equal access and opportunity to participate in all University programs, services, and activities. A qualified student with a disability is one who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities and who, with or without reasonable accommodation, meets the essential eligibility requirements for the programs, services and activities offered by the University. Please see me immediately if you have an accommodation for which I need to make arrangements. *** This syllabus is a tentative outline for this course. I will make reasonable effort to adhere to this schedule bu t you should know that I reserve the right to alter as circumstances may dictate. All changes will be announced in class and/or via the closed Facebook group. You are responsible for obtaining this information. Additional GOOD Stuff: Center for Writin g and Communication The Center for Writing and Communication (CWC) is a combined writing and speaking center that provides free, one - on - one and group tutorials to students working on writing and presentation assignments. Located on the first floor of McWherter Library, the CWC can assist you at any stage of the writing/presentation process including brainstorming ideas, revising initial drafts, and developing editing strategies. Whether you are working on a paper, speech, or another type of composition preserving the integrity of your work. The CWC is open Monday - Thursday, 9:00 - 5:00, and Friday, 9:00 - noon. Visit the CWC website ( s.edu/cwc ) for more information and to schedule an appointment. Walk - in appointments are also welcome. Any questions that you might have for your students can be directed to Will Duffy by emailing cwc@memp his.edu THE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT CENTER - The Complete Professional Program has an entire semester of events to help you get the job you want. Deadlines are If you successfully complete four of the five required core modules, you will receive The Complete Professional Program Certificate, our program lapel pin, and a set of business cards. Employ ers value this certificate and know Our Professional Development Program includes: Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Business Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Futures in Finance Moving into Management Professionalism First! Technology Careers In Business (New for Fall 2014) Toastmasters Women in Action 4Cs Lecture Series Communication, Creativity, Critical Thinking, and Em otional Control (offered during regular classes) Know Good Do Good Thrive (offered during selected core classes) All FCBE students receive the last two components as part of our regular curriculum with in Management, MIS, and Marketing core courses. To receive the Complete Professional Program Certificate, you must register for and complete 4 of the five core training modules below: Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters