#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/releases/sept15/setwc.php
SETWC - Media Room - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Media Room Publications Resources This Week UofM Magazine News Releases Contact News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Home Media Room News Releases SETWC SETWC and Vaco Partner to Address Transportation Workforce Issues September 10, 2015 - The Southeast Transportation Workforce Center (SETWC) at the University of Memphis and Vaco Logistics are partnering to address transportation workforce issues in the Mid-South, specifically to focus on issues related to women in transportation nationally. SETWC serves a 12-state region in the southeastern United States and Puerto Rico. While the Center addresses the broad goals of transportation workforce development throughout the region, it focuses on the following areas of national expertise: women in transportation, freight and military/veteran transition into the transportation workforce. Vaco Logistics was a key sponsor of the Choosing Transportation: Attracting Women to the Profession summit hosted by SETWC in March. (The conference summary is available on the SETWC website, ) The conference revealed a critical need to increase awareness of career opportunities, collaboratively create pathways for training, education and workforce entry, and to develop a framework for measuring progress toward workforce goals for women in transportation. Through this partnership, Vaco Logistics joins the listing of 100 key partnerships being developed by the National Network for the Transportation Workforce to advance the transportation workforce agenda. The network is funded by the U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration. "We are thrilled to count Vaco Logistics as one of our key partners for this important initiative," said Dr. Stephanie Ivey, director of SETWC. "It is through this type of collaboration that we will be able to move the needle in creating awareness and resources for attracting women to and advancing women in the transportation workforce." Cheryl Citrone, partner and director of logistics and operations at Vaco Logistics, is chair of the Society of Female Transportation Professionals and was recognized as the organization's first Outstanding Transportation Professional in 2014. "SETWC is doing important work that will have broad-reaching effects for both the transportation industry and for women," she said. "Vaco Logistics is proud to participate in this initiative." About Vaco Logistics Based in Memphis, Vaco Logistics focuses on executive search in the transportation, distribution and manufacturing industries. It is a division of Vaco, a national recruiting and consulting firm that serves business communities by offering recruiting and consulting services with practice areas in technology, accounting, logistics, marketing and risk solutions. Its success has enhanced a national Vaco brand with 28 offices nationwide that has been ranked for the past nine years in Inc. magazine's top 5,000 fastest growing private companies - a feat that fewer than 2 percent of U.S. companies have accomplished. For more information, call 901.333.2250 or visit . Contact: Kimberly Grantham 901.678.2549 kmgrnthm@memphis.edu News Releases Latest News Releases October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 News Releases Archive 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Music Performance Calendar Find out where the music is Art Museum Learn about the latest exhibits Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .