#http://www.memphis.edu/chucalissa/about/
UofM - Chucalissa - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. C.H. Nash Museum Chucalissa About Schedule &amp; Fees Events Directions Museum Store About Early Chucalissa Chucalissa Today Home Chucalissa About Mission Statement The mission of the C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa, a division of the University of Memphis, is to protect and interpret the Chucalissa archaeological site's cultural and natural environments, and to provide the University Community and the public with exceptional educational, participatory and research opportunities on the landscape's past and present Native American and traditional cultures. Chucalissa Then &amp; Now Early Chucalissa Although projectile points dating back some 3000 years have been found at the site, most evidence indicates that the first town was founded around 1000 C.E. Although brief, this occupation, known as the Ensley Phase, paved the way for more stable communities in the following centuries. Little has survived of this first occupation, the site appears to have been a satellite of a larger community located near Downtown Memphis. Around 1200 C.E. the village was again brought to life during what is referred to as the Mitchell Phase. Daily life and customs appear to have changed little, but this phase marked the initiation of the mound building phase with the construction of the first small mound. There is also evidence of contact with people to the south; yet again the village was short lived. After being abandoned for some two hundred years, the site was again settled around 1400 C.E. During the Boxtown Phase of occupation, perhaps the most important evidence suggests a broad trading network extending from the Natchez area of Mississippi to Western Kentucky and Illinois. The most impressive evidence for these contacts is seen by the presence of potsherds. Around 1500 C.E. the last, and most powerful settlement of the area occurred. The village constructed during this, the Walls Phase, is the one represented at the site today. During this phase, large mounds were constructed around the central plaza. Society and technology evolved and produced a rather advanced socially stratified chiefdom. During this occupation farming, supplemented by hunting and fishing were the mainstays of daily life. Meanwhile a substantial artisan class practiced their trades, and extended the economic network of the village. Additionally the residents enjoyed sufficient free time to warrant the construction of a ball field/ceremonial ground. Although it is unclear exactly why, these inhabitants too abandoned the site before the arrival of DeSoto in the Mid-south. In 1541 Spanish colonial explorer Hernando DeSoto "discovered" the Mississippi River somewhere south of Memphis. Over the course of the next 500 years, many nations would lay claim to the land that Chucalissa is on and by 1800 it was considered the property of the expanding United States. The bottom-lands between the bluff and the river were turned to farming early in the 19th century. This improved land was bought in 1854 and run as a cotton plantation. Nineteen enslaved African Americans were purchased as laborers along with the land, its buildings and some animals. These and other slaves were freed during the course of the Civil War. Though we do not know what became of these individuals, many local African Americans remained in this area and farmed under the sharecropping and tenant farming systems. Following the Civil War, this land traded hands a number of times until 1936, when it was purchased by the state to create the Shelby County Negro Park. This park was to be the Jim Crow-era analogy to the whites-only Shelby Forest north of Memphis. The archaeological site was discovered in 1938 by Civilian Conservation Corps workers preparing the new park. The University of Tennessee began archaeological excavations at the site in 1940, but soon halted them in response to World War II. In 1955 work resumed at Chucalissa and the first public museum at the site was opened in 1956. Chucalissa Today In January 1962, Memphis State University assumed administrative responsibility for Chucalissa and the site quickly became a central focus of the Archaeology program in the Department of Anthropology. Chucalissa supported a continuous series of field schools and was the subject of numerous MA theses and practicums. In 1974, Chucalissa was listed on the National Register of Historic Place and in 1994 was declared a National Historic Landmark. Today, Chucalissa continues to provide educational experiences for the general public and elementary and secondary students, and visitors to the Memphis through its exhibitions, tour programs and special events. Our goal is to provide a range of educational programs to promote greater awareness and appreciation of the accomplishments of the Native American people of the Mid-South, both past and present. The C.H. Nash Museum and Chucalissa support diverse undergraduate and graduate programs at the University of Memphis. The museum and its associated educational programs provide training opportunities for students in the Museum Studies Graduate Certificate Program. We continue to work toward an expanded and enhanced visitor experience at Chucalissa and continued service to the educational mission of the University of Memphis. Chucalissa offers guided tours, traveling exhibits, and a variety of special events for students and the general public. Events include our Annual Relic Run in March, family days, and various demonstrations of crafts and early technologies. For more information consult the event calendar page or contact the museum at 901.785.3160 or write chucalissa@memphis.edu . About Early Chucalissa Chucalissa Today Educational Resources Program offerings, Teacher and Group Leader packets, Activities, and more... Anoachi Newsletter An inside glimpse at Museum Operations Sites to See Nearby archaeological sites and museums Contact Us Want to volunteer or schedule a tour at Chucalissa? Have a question about our collections? Contact our main office... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .