#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-advancement/UM1652%20documents/SpeciaTypesofIn-KindContributions.pdf
Special Types of In - Kind Contributions a. Real Estate : Please see Section 2 for Policies and Procedures for Real Estate Gift Acceptance . b. Software (CASE Guidelines) : All gifts of software are subject to the following policies and procedures: The Vice President for Advancement and the Vice President for IT will review all gifts of software with a value of more than $5,000 prior to official acceptance and will make a recommendation regarding the recorded values . Gifts of software will be recorded at the educational discount value established in writing by the donor. If no educational discount is available, it must be so stated in written communication from the donor and the established retail value will be used. The donor must irrevocably transfer ownership of the software to the institution and this transfer of ownership must be documented in written communication from the donor. If use of the software license must be renewed at a later date, the transaction is not a gift. A gift of software can only be counted in the year that the gift is originally given. If free upgrades are given at a future date which have a higher established retail value, then the difference between the new retail value (less educational discount) and the original retail value (less educational discount) is countable as an additional gift. For gifts of software, the Gift - in - kind Acceptance Form must be submitted to the Advancement Office along with appropriate documentation of the gift including: A letter from the donor on company letterhead documenting the dollar value of the software, including a statement of the educational discount value if it is available; letter must verify that the donor is irrevocably transferring ownership of the software given to the University. A specific description of the software including the number and type of licenses (individual license, site license, etc.) and the stated value for each license; A copy of the gift agreement and all related documents ; A statement of the planned administrative, academic or research use for the software. c. Patents , Trademarks, and Other Technology Rights : All gifts of patents, trademarks, and other technology rights are subject to the following policies and procedu res: The University of Memphis Foundation will normally be the donee for all gifts of patents, trademarks, and other technology rights. Responsibility for specific acceptance and management of contributions of patents, trademarks, and other technology r ights will be determined on a case - by - case basis by the University President and the University of Memphis Foundation Board of Trustees Chair. Gifts of patents, trademarks, and other technology rights will be recorded at a nominal value ($1) for both legal and recognition credit. Per CASE recommendations, income generated in the future as a result of these gifts can be recorded for recognition credit. The donor is expected to pay the recordation fees in the appropriate copyright and patent offices associat ed with the transfer of the patent, trademark, or other technology rights to the University of Memphis Foundation. If the donor does not agree to cover this cost, the dean of the college in which the patents, trademarks, and other technology rights will b e used must assume responsibility for the recordation fees, if such gift is to be accepted. The donor is also expected to make a cash contribution that will cover the cost of renewing the donated patent, trademark, and technology rights. If the donor doe s not agree to cover this cost, the dean of the college in which the patents, trademarks, and other technology rights will be used must assume responsibility for all renewal expenses. d . Contributed Services: Based on CASE and FASB guidelines and IRS r egulations, contributed services fund - raising totals. The final decision regarding whether to include certain contributed services in annual fund - raisi ng totals will be made by the Vice President for Advancement. However, contributed services are eligible for recognition credit if the services received (a) create or enhance non - financial assets or (b) require specialized skills, are provided by individua ls possessing those skills, and would typically need to be purchased if not provided by gift. Services requiring specialized skills are provided by accountants, architects, carpenters, doctors, electricians, lawyers, nurses, plumbers, teachers, and other p rofessionals and craftsmen. Contributions of broadcast time and newspaper space are also considered contributed services and are eligible for recognition credit only. Reporting contributed services on the Gift - in - Kind Acceptance Form will enable the Univer sity to give recognition credit to the contributor of the service. e. Items Not Considered Charitable Contributions: Based on CASE and FASB guidelines and IRS regulations, the following types of in - kind contributions are not considered charitable contrib utions and - raising totals: Use of real property Discounts on purchases Costs of appraisals Shipping costs Sales tax f. Permanent Loan: Property given to the University as a permanent loan will not be booked as a gift.