#http://www.memphis.edu/cris/intramurals/register.php
Register for Intramurals/Club Sports - CRIS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Campus Recreation Intramural Services About Membership Classes/Programs Aquatics Intramurals/Club Sports Facilities Intramural/Club Sports Intramurals Schedule Club Sports Register for a Sport Intramurals Handbook Game Rules Intramurals Forms Home CRIS Intramural / Club Sports Register for Intramurals/Club Sports Register for Intramurals/Club Sports All intramural participants are required to create an account on IMLeagues.com. IMLeagues offers a live support button in the top right corner of all pages, which you should use if you encounter any difficulties. To Create an IMLeagues Account: 1. Visit OR Visit and click Create Account OR Visit and click Log in with Facebook if you have a facebook account attached to your school e-mail address. This will automatically create an account. Simply fill in your information and register with your school (steps 2-4). 2. Enter your information, using your school e-mail address (youremail@memphis.edu) and submit. 3. You will be sent an activation e-mail. Click the enclosed link to log in and activate your IMLeagues account. 4. You should be automatically linked to your school. If not, you may search schools by clicking the Schools link. How to Sign up for Intramurals 1. Log in to your IMLeagues.com account. 2. Click the Create/Join Team button at the top right of your User Home page. OR Click on the University of Memphis link to go to your school's home page on IMLeagues. 3. The current sports will be displayed. Click on the sport you wish to join. 4. Choose the league you wish to play in (Men's, Women's, Co-Rec, etc.). 5. Choose the division you'd like to play in (Monday 5 pm, Tuesday 5 pm, etc.). 6. You can join the sport one of three ways: A. Create a team (for team captains): Captains can invite members to their team by clicking the Invite Members link on the team page. Any invited members must accept the invitation to be joined to your team. If they've already registered on IMLeagues, just search for their name, and invite them. If they haven't yet registered on IMLeagues, you will have to scroll down to the Invite by e-mail address box, and input their e-mail address. Use the Create/Join Team Button at top right of every page. Accept a request from the captain to join his team. Find the team and captain name on division/league page and requesting to join. Go to the captain's player card page, viewing his team, and request to join. You can list yourself as a free agent in as many divisions within a league as you'd like. You will be visible to all members of the site and can request to join teams, or post information about yourself so teams can request to add you to their team. B. Join as a team. C. Join as a free agent. Intramural/Club Sports Intramurals Schedule Club Sports Register for a Sport Intramurals Handbook Game Rules Intramurals Forms Updates on New Student Recreation Center Keep up with news on our New Student Recreation Center Apply for a Job Explore job opportunities at the Recreation Center Join an Intramurals/Club Sports Team Participate in competitive play in selected sport events! Sign up for a Fitness Program Interested in staying in shape? Checkout our fitness programs. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .