#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-advancement/UM1652%20documents/Appraisaldefinitions.pdf
Qualified Appraisal A qualified appraisal must include the following information: A d escription of the property in sufficient detail for a person who is not generally familiar with the type of property to determine that the property appraised is the property that was contributed. The physical condition of any tangible property. The date (or expected date) of the contribution. The terms of any agreement or understanding entered into (or expected to be entered into) by or on behalf of the donor that relates to the use, sale, or other disposition of the donated property. The name and addre ss of the qualified appraiser. The appraisal must include a disclaimer statement regarding any affiliation with the donor or the contributed property. The qualifications of the qualified appraiser who signs the appraisal, including the ound, experience, education, and membership in professional appraisal associations. The date (or dates) when the property was valued. The appraised fair market value on the date (or expected date) of contribution. The method of valuation used to determi ne the fair market value. The specific basis for the valuation, such as any specific comparable sales transactions. Qualified Appraiser - A qualified appraiser is an individual who declares on the appraisal summary that he or she: Holds himself or herself out to the public as an appraiser or performs appraisals on a regular basis. Is qualified to make appraisals of the type of property being valued because of his or her qualifications described in the appraisal. Is not an excluded individual (see below). Understands that an intentionally false overstatement of the value of property may subject him or her to the penalty for aiding and abetting an understatement of tax liability. Excluded Individuals - The following persons cannot be qualified appraisers with respect to particular property: The donor of the property or the taxpayer who claims the deduction. The donee of the property. A party to the transaction in which the donor acquired the prope rty being appraised, unless the property is donated within two months of the date of acquisition and its appraised value does not exceed its acquisition price. This applies to the person who sold, exchanged, or gave the property to the donor, or any person who acted as an agent for the transferor or donor in the transaction. Any person employed by, married to, or related to any of the above persons. For example, if the donor acquired a painting from an art dealer, neither the dealer nor persons employed by the dealer can be qualified appraisers for that painting.