#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/education/bsed_req.php
B.S. ED Requirements - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs B.S. ED Requirements BSED Requirements Professional Studies for Educators Professional studies in the College of Education consist of both subject matter, pedagogical knowledge, and specialized studies related to specific P-12 settings. All teacher education students will study knowledge and skills in human development, methods, technology, classroom management, cultural diversity, balanced assessment, and how to differentiate instruction. Students must also know and display professional dispositions expected of educators. Skills in assessment, behavior management and specialized instructional methods are incorporated in courses delivered by their respective specialty areas. Specific requirements are listed in the section of the Catalog addressing each major. Accreditation The College of Education holds membership in the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education. Its undergraduate programs, as well as all graduate degree programs through the doctoral degree for the preparation of teachers and related school personnel, are approved by the Tennessee State Department of Education. The College is fully accredited by the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE). Licensure Areas Areas of licensure that are available at the completion of undergraduate education programs include: Special Education Modified K-12 (460) Comprehensive K-12 (461) (as an add-on endorsement only) Physical Education K-12 (420) Elementary K-6 (499) Middle Grades 4-8 (440) Early Childhood PrK-3 (467) Visual Arts (427) Music Inst. K-12 (429) Music Voc./Gen K-12 (428) Dance K-12 (445) Recommendation for teacher licensure in any of the following teaching areas is contingent upon the completion of a baccalaureate degree in the appropriate academic area followed by completion of the Master of Arts in Teaching degree: Visual Arts (K-12) English as a Second Language (K-12) Elementary K-6 (499); Middle Grades 4-8 (440) Early Childhood Pre K-3 (467) Special Education Modified K-12 (460) Comprehensive K-12 (461) Early Childhood Pre K-1 (465) Physical Education K-12 (420) Secondary English 7-12 (407) French K-12 (491) German K-12 (492) Spanish K-12 (495) Russian K-12 (494) Latin K-12 (493) Other Foreign Language (496) Mathematics 7-12 (413) Biology 7-12 (415) Chemistry 7-12 (416) Physics 7-12 (417) Earth Science 7-12 (418) History 7-12 (421) Government 7-12 (423) Geography 7-12 (422) Psychology 9-12 (426) Sociology 9-12 (425) Students who intend to enter the Master of Arts in Teaching program should consult the MAT advisor and the College of Education Advisor for information about this program to ensure that the general education curriculum, pre-professional studies, and teacher licensure requirements are completed. Endorsements at the Graduate Level Speech/Language Pre K-12 (464) Counselor K-12 (487) School Administrator Beginning Administrator K-12 (A Standard) (480) Professional Administrator PreK-12 (483) School Psychologist (089) Library Information Specialist (073) English as a Second Language (490) Reading Specialist (486) Admission to Teacher Education Program Students who plan to pursue an undergraduate program of studies leading to teacher licensure must submit a formal application to the College of Education Teacher Education Program (TEP). Students are encouraged to apply for admission in their sophomore year. Prerequisites for Provisional admission to the Teacher Education Program are as follows: 1. Complete a minimum of 45 semester hours. 2. Complete and submit the TEP application. Applications can be downloaded from the following site: 3. Complete with a grade of C- or above ENGL 1010, ENGL 1020, EDPR 2111, an appropriate course in speech, and the general education required Math course(s). 4. Take and submit satisfactory scores on the CORE Academic Skills for Educators. Students scoring a 22 or above on the Enhanced ACT do not have to take the CORE. Passing scores for the CORE: Reading 1156, Writing 162, and Mathematics 150. 5. Earn and maintain a GPA of no less than 2.75. An undergraduate student whose cumulative grade point average drops below 2.75 will not be provisionally admitted/retained in the Teacher Education Program. 6. Interview successfully with College of Education, Health and Human Sciences faculty and P-12 teachers/administrators. You must have passed the COREand have a 2.75 GPA to be interviewed. 7. Obtain recommendations from two college or university professors. Recommendation forms are included with the TEP application. 8. Submit and request forwarding to the Office of Teacher Education and Student Support Services a Tennessee Bureau of Investigation criminal history background check. Candidates who do not meet the regular Teacher Education Program (TEP) Provisional Admissions criteria may apply for alternative admission based on the following policy: Alternative Admission Based on CORE Scores 1. The candidates must meet the minimum cut-off scores for two of the three subtests or they cannot appeal. The writing subtest must be passed by all candidates. 2. The appealed CORE subtest score (math or reading) cannot vary more than 3% (5 points) from the acceptable minimum score. 3. Candidates who do not meet the minimum requirements must meet the following guidelines to submit an appeal based on CORE: a. Must have a GPA of 3.00. b. Must have taken the CORE subtest in question twice. c. If appealing the Reading Subtest, the student must have at least a 3.00 average in general education literature course and an general education history course. d. If appealing the Mathematics Test, the student must have a 3.00 average in all required mathematics courses in the general education curriculum. e. All of the above courses must be taken at an accredited college. 4. Candidates MUST have take all relevant core courses as described above for their appeals to be considered. 5. Candidates who have the required grade point average and the required grades in the specified courses may be approved by the Director of Teacher Education without further appeal committee action. Alternative Admission Based on Grade Point Average Candidates appealing to be Provisionally admitted to TEP because their grade point average has fallen below 2.75 must meet the following requirements in order to appeal: 1. Must have passed all sections of the CORE 2. Must provide, as part of their appeal, a plan describing the courses they will repeat or take to raise their grade point average to the 2.75 minimum and a proposed timeline. No restricted courses can be included in the plan. Special Notes: Candidates may not appeal for alternative admission if they have less that a 2.50 grade point average and have not met the minimum requirements of the CORE. These students will be advised individually regarding a remediation plan to improve their grade point average and/or PPST performance. In some instances, the candidate may be counseled out of the program. Retention Candidates may be referred for retention throughout their program of studies. If candidates' graded point average drops below the required 2.75 while in Provisional Admission status, they will not be allowed to take any restricted courses in subsequent semesters and will lose their TEP admission status. Referrals can be made for academics, but also for professional dispositions related to ethical or attitudinal problems. There are also specific actions that can result in Disqualification ( ). The College of Education Professional Dispositions guide the retention process. Candidates may be referred for counseling or be reviewed before the TEP Retention Committee. Pre-Student Teaching Clinical Experiences Students pursuing teacher licensure complete, as a part of their program, a variety of required clinical experiences incorporated into professional education courses. Students will be expected to have experiences in a variety of settings (real and virtual) and with pupils who reflect differences in age, socioeconomic backgrounds, and cultural heritage. Clinical experiences include both laboratory experiences (typically fulfilled on campus) and clinical experiences (typically fulfilled in PreK-12 schools). The early childhood programs require field experiences in PreK-3 grades. Other licensure programs require placements in a variety of grades (K-12). The amount of time spent in a clinical experience varies according to the specific requirement being met. Fulfillment of these experiences requires that students make available out-of-class time between 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. All students are required to complete the number of clinical experience hours expected in their licensure area. Completion of field experiences will occur in sites arranged and approved by the University of Memphis College of Education Office of School Based Clinical Practice. Full Admission to Teacher Education Program and Residency Teacher candidates entering their Junior year of study must meet the requirements for Full Admission to the Teacher Education Program and the Yearlong Residency. These requirements include: Overall grade point average of 3.0. Passing score on the appropriate Praxis Content Knowledge Exam. Successful interview with Program Faculty. Successful on-demand writing task. Provide for review an exemplar work sample (e.g., lesson plan, etc.). Complete an online aptitude for teaching questionnaire. Evidence of professional liability insurance of at least one million dollars. Residency II/ Second Semester Senior Year Students who pursue degree programs at the University of Memphis that lead to teacher licensure must complete their Residency II in placements arranged, coordinated, and approved by the Clinical Coordinator of the College of Education. Residency II teaching assignments are full day in length for 15 weeks. Residency II is offered only during the spring semesters in partnership schools. No Residency assignments for initial licensure are made during the summer semester. Under the direction of Preservice Instructive Mentors (PIM), and Residency II Supervisors, candidates are afforded opportunities to co-plan, co-teach, and co-assess in the PIM's classroom. In addition, all teacher candidates must submit an edTPA for national scoring. edTPA is the capstone assessment for all programs and success is required for a successful Residency II. NO OTHER COURSES MAY BE TAKEN DURING RESIDENCY II EXCEPT FOR THE PROFESSIONAL SEMINAR. Grades in Residency II are reported as "S" (satisfactory) or "U" (unsatisfactory). Requirements for enrollment in yearlong Residency are: 1. File an application the semester before Residency I. 2. Gain full admittance to and be in good standing in the Teacher Education Program one semester before the Residency Year (senior year). 3. Attain classification as a senior with a minimum grade point average of 3.0. 4. Complete of all prerequisite professional education courses. 5. Earn a minimum grade of "C" in University General Education Program courses, each required professional education course, and each course in the major. 6. Submit passing scores on all remaining required Praxis II licensure exams for the specific area of licensure being sought prior to Residency II. Candidates must submit scores on the exam no later than 30 days prior to the first day of Residency II. 7. Must have a background check on file. Graduation To be recommended for graduation and licensure, teacher candidates must complete the requirements listed below: 1. Minimum of 120 semester hours, including at least 45 hours of upper division courses. 2. Overall minimum GPA of 3.0. 3. A minimum GPA of 3.0 in all courses taken at the University of Memphis, excluding all credit transferred from other institutions. 4. Minimum grade of "C" in each required professional education course and each course in the major. Candidates can only repeat a professional education course once. Failure to make a satisfactory grade on the second attempt will result in disqualification from the teacher education program. 5. Submit scores for all Praxis II licensure exams. 6. Successfully complete the Teacher Performance Assessment (edTPA). For Tennessee Teacher Licensure, students must obtain satisfactory scores in Principles of Learning and Teaching and Specialty Area Examinations of the PRAXIS II, according to the criteria established by the Tennessee State Board of Education. Any courses taken in excess of those needed to fulfill the requirements of professional education courses and major and minor endorsement areas, are considered to be general electives and are included only in the calculation of the overall GPA. In those areas where students are required to take elective courses, the student, in consultation with and approval of the major advisor, designates where the elective courses are to be applied. Majors In addition to completing the degree requirements listed above for teacher licensure, B.S.Ed., students must complete requirements for the Human Development and Learning, Integrative Studies, Physical Education Teacher Education, and Teaching All Learners. Following the requirements for these majors are the requirements for the non-licensure degree and majors offered through other departments in the college. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Course Descriptions Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/3/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .