#http://www.memphis.edu/advising/Documents/tcr.pdf
TRANSFER CREDIT REQUEST FORM Admissions Office 101 Wilder Tower Memphis TN 38152 - 3520 Phone (901) 678 - 2111 - Fax (901) 678 - 3053 S ection I - T o be complete d by the s tudent Name : Last Firs t Middle Banner ID (U # ) E - mail Phone DOB First Term at The U of M Current Major : Degree Sought: University or college at which the student intends to enroll and dates of attendance. Nam e of School 2 yr or 4 yr From (month/year) To (month/year) Transfer Course Transfer Course Title Sem Hrs Cr U of M Course Equivalent Sem Hr s Cr e.g. ACCT 1210 e.g. Prin Accounting I 3 UD LD e.g. ACCT 2010 e.g. 3 UD LD UD LD UD LD UD LD UD LD UD LD UD LD UD LD UD LD Check here to certify that you have read and understand all the transfer courses regulation/ policies and residence requirements for graduation from the University. A student will satisfy residence requirements for graduation by earning at least twent y - five (25) percent of credit hours required for the degree at the University of Memphis. At least thirty (30) of the final sixty (60) hours required for the degree must be completed at the University of Memphis. A student cannot earn u pper d ivision cred its at a c ommunity or j unior c ollege. A student transferring credits from a two - year college or institution must complete, as a requirement for the baccalaureate degree, a minimum of (60) sixty semester hours in an accredited senior (four - year) institutio n. Submit Button Goes Here Print Button Goes Here Section II - Only necessary t o be completed and signed by the student, a cademic a dvisor , and g raduation a nalyst if any course listed above is not currently included in the U niversity of M emphis Equivalency Table . Student Signature Date Advisor: Please review the information above to ensure that the courses listed P lease print advisor s name and campus ext. Advisor Approval Signature Date Dean/Director/ Grad . Analyst Approval Signature Date Department Chair of Major Approval Herff College of Engineering only Date