#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/education/sport.php
Sport and Leisure Management - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Sport and Leisure Management Sport and Leisure Management Department of Health and Sport Sciences Sport and Leisure Management Major (B.S.Ed.) Program objectives of the B.S.Ed. in Sport and Leisure Management are: (a) to become involved in the profession and committed to the academic, service, and social mission of the profession; (b) to demonstrate an awareness of the critical role of diversity to the delivery of inclusive sport and leisure services; (c) to demonstrate effective leadership within the sport and leisure profession; and (d) to behave in accordance with the ethical standards of the sport and leisure profession. A. University General Education Program (41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. The following are recommended or required for the major: Social/Behavioral Sciences: ECON 2010 is required. B. The Major (79 hours) 1. Core requirements (43 hours). (Minimum grade of "C-" required in all major courses); SLS 2105 (4), 3104, 3105, 3204, 3605, 3650, 4135, 4155, 4205, 4500, 4605 (12). 2. SLS electives (15-36 hours). Includes all SLS courses not required in the major core and HPRM 2007, 2330, 2999, 3130, 3340, 3600.. 3. General Electives (0-21 hours) to bring the total number of hours to 120. Accelerated B.S.Ed. in Sport and Leisure Management /M.S in Health and Sport Science with a concentration in Sport Management This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin the coursework for the Master of Science during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated B.S.Ed./M.S. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Health and Sport Sciences. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study which will allow them to complete their B.S.Ed. degree while they also begin the coursework toward their M.S. To apply, students must have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two reference letters and a copy of their transcript to the Health and Sport Sciences department. Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate academic coordinator in health and sport sciences. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for the accelerated B.S.Ed./M.S. program, which allows them to take graduate courses in health and sport science. To continue in the program past the B.S.Ed., students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the Health and Sport Sciences department's M.S. program. Only in ABM programs, up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. However, any graduate coursework will not apply to undergraduate GPA. Typical 4-Year Sport and Leisure Management Sequence Freshman Year ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 Social/Behavioral Sciences* 3 Natural Science/Lab* 4 MATH* 3 Humanities/Fine Arts* 3 Humanities/Fine Arts* 3 COMM 2381 3 Elective 3 History* 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 16 hrs Sophomore Year ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 ECON 2010 3 SLS 2105 4 History* 3 SLS elective 3 SLS 3204 3 Natural Science/Lab* 4 SLS elective 3 Elective 3 Semester Totals 14 hrs 15 hrs Junior Year SLS 3104 3 Elective 3 SLS 3105 3 SLS 4205 3 SLS 3605 3 SLS 3650 3 Elective 3 SLS 4135 3 Elective 3 SLS elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 15 hrs Senior Year SLS elective 3 SLS 4605 12 SLS 4155 3 Elective 3 SLS 4500 3 SLS elective 3 Elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 15 hrs Total Hours: 120 Total Hours Required for Graduation: 120 *Must satisfy University General Education Program Requirement College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .