#http://www.memphis.edu/wateronwheels/request/
- Water on Wheels - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Water on Wheels About Stories Teacher Resources Request Home Water on Wheels Request Want the WOW mobile to visit you? Here are some things to know before requesting the WOW mobile to visit your school, camp or festival. Schools, Camps and Festivals: The WOW is available to public, private and home schools, as well as educational groups such as those who offer fall and spring break camps, and community festivals. What to Expect: The WOW will be staffed by Center for Applied Earth Science and Engineering Research (CAESER) employees and students. The WOW staff will work with teachers and students to ensure that students learn about water in a productive and safe manner. Teachers are expected to stay with their classes. Knowing that each school has different needs to accommodate, the WOW staff will work with a teacher or teachers to create a plan before the WOW arrives on a school's campus. The WOW is aimed at students in grades 4, 5 and 6, but it may be suitable for other grades. Each presentation is 30-45 minutes. Fees: There is a flat day fee of $100 for the WOW to visit, along with a travel fee. Within Shelby County, there is a $10 gasoline fee. Outside of Shelby County, a travel fee of 47 cents per mile will be charged (subject to change), to and from the University of Memphis campus. PAYMENT: A school will not be charged until after the completion of a WOW visit. Once the WOW has completed its visit, the University of Memphis will invoice your organization. A Form W-9 needs to be provided to GWI prior to being invoiced. Refund policy: We will reimburse basic cost plus travel, but extras are non-refundable. Weather: The WOW is an open air vehicle. There is no air conditioning or heating. Because it is designed to be open during its use, it cannot be used during rain. Should a school schedule the WOW and there is rain, a WOW visit will be rescheduled. Please make sure your students dress appropriately for the weather since they will be inside and outside of the WOW during a typical 30-minute presentation. The WOW is not available during July and August, due to the heat. WOW Parking and Set-Up: The WOW is a 24' trailer and needs to be parked on a level surface. Ideally, electrical access within 100' is needed. The WOW is pulled by a large truck. A total of at least 54' is needed to park the WOW and truck. Wheelchair Access: The WOW is wheelchair accessible. Questions? For more information about the Water on Wheels (WOW) mobile, email or call 901.678.4229. Ask for the WOW to visit you Request the WOW to visit your school or festival. Watch a video about the WOW See what the WOW looks like on the inside. What do teachers and students think about the WOW A teacher and her students share their thoughts. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .