#http://www.memphis.edu/scholarships/servicehours/
Service Hours - Scholarships - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Scholarships Tiger Scholarship Manager Service Hours Forms HOPE Scholarship Home Scholarships Service Hours Scholarship Service Hour Requirement Options As a scholarship student at the University of Memphis, you are required to perform a certain number of service hours in order to keep your scholarship. Our office has developed this sheet to give you a list of options that you have to complete your service hours. Our office will need official verification from your site supervisor that you have completed your service hours. The service hour verification letter should be on official letterhead, signed by your site supervisor, who may not be a related party or yourself, and must include the following: Your UID number, name, total hours volunteered, a brief summary of your responsibilities, and your site supervisor’s contact information. Service hours must be completed during the academic year in which the scholarship award is received. Verification of service hours is due by June 1st of each academic year. Note: hours in excess of your scholarship requirement do not carry forward. Scholarships will not be renewed for the upcoming school year until service hour completion is verified and appropriate supporting documentation is received by the Scholarship Office. The Helen Hardin Honors Program In lieu of service hours, students actively participating in the Helen Hardin Honors Program at the University of Memphis may fulfill the service hour requirement using the following methods. Active participation for service hour fulfillment means completing two (2) three-hour Honors courses per year, earning a grade no lower than a B, completing an approved Honors Experience (i.e., undergraduate research/internship, graduate course, honors directed study etc. ) or contracting for Honors credit and satisfactorily completing the Honors contract work while earning a grade of A or B. Each Honors course taken completes one semester's requirement (75 hours) for service hours (i.e. two Honors courses completed per year fulfills your service requirement of 150 hours). For more information on becoming a member of the University Honors Program go to: National Conference on Undergraduate Research (NCUR) Students participating in NCUR through the University Honors Program have fulfilled their scholarship hour obligation to the University of Memphis. You must submit a statement on letterhead from the Helen Hardin Honors Program signed by the Director/Assistant Director and return it to the Scholarship Office. Educational Support Program (ESP) Scholarship service hours can be earned by tutoring through the Educational Support Program (ESP). If you have the following characteristics, you could be an ESP tutor: 1) Good standing in the Scholarship Program 2) Like working with others 3) Interested in learning about yourself 4) Reliable and dependable 5) Can schedule hours each week for service hours (until they are completed). You must submit a statement on letterhead signed by a representative from the Educational Support Program that includes your name, UID number, a brief description of responsibilities, hours worked, and their contact information. Contact ESP at 678-2704 for more information. Officer in a Registered Student Organization Students currently serving in an officer capacity with a Registered Student Organization at the University of Memphis requiring significant responsibilities for the benefit of the organization have fulfilled their scholarship hour obligation to the University of Memphis. You must have the Advisor of the student organization or the University of Memphis advisor type a memo on letterhead that includes your name, UID number, position(s) held and when, a brief description of responsibilities, and advisor contact information. Participation in Major Student Coordinated Organizations/Events Students significantly involved in the following have fulfilled their scholarship hour obligation to The University of Memphis: Student Government Association Student Ambassador Board Emerging Leaders Program Student Activities Council (Leadership Positions) Resident Advisor Program Frosh Camp (Leadership Positions) Up Til Dawn (Leadership Positions) International or National Student Exchange Program Participation You must have the Advisor of the student organization or the University of Memphis advisor type a memo on letterhead that includes your name, UID number, position(s) held and when, a brief description of responsibilities, and advisor contact information. Individual Service Contract Option Students currently participating in volunteer service activities in the community may receive credit depending on the level of involvement/time commitment. If you wish to apply for this option please speak to the Scholarship office about your plan. You must have the site supervisor type a memo on letterhead that includes your name, UID number, hours volunteered, a brief description of responsibilities, and their contact information. Go to for more suggested service activities in Memphis. The University of Memphis Office Assignment Many University of Memphis departments and programs utilize scholarship students to perform various office tasks. If you are unable to complete your service hours in any other manner, the Scholarship Office has a list of departments on campus who need service volunteers. Such offices as the University Library, Campus School, Honors Program and the Recruitment Offices need assistance with various tasks during the school year. You must have the department supervisor send the Scholarship Office an email that includes your name, UID number, hours volunteered, a brief description of responsibilities, and their contact information. Scholarship Opportunities List of internal scholarships Outside Scholarships Submitting a Scholarship Check Links of Interest Are you looking for a scholarship? About Scholarships Scholarship contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .