#http://www.memphis.edu/accounting/effort_faq.php
Effort Certification FAQs - Accounting - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Accounting Staff Directory Areas Travel Systems Info Effort Certification Links Home Accounting Effort Certification FAQs Effort Certification FAQs Whose effort needs to be certified? Effort has to be certified for all faculty and professional staff, including temporary instructors, graduate assistants, and temporary professional employees, who, during the period to be certified, receive some portion of their compensation from, or who contribute effort to, a sponsored program, restricted fund or University cost share. The effort of all classified employees, including students, temporary employees, and graduate assistants paid on a bi-weekly basis, assigned/appointed to sponsored programs or assigned/appointed to positions for the purpose of fulfilling the University's obligation to sponsored program (cost-sharing), will be certified in conjunction with time reporting. What effort needs to be certified? A key concept is that hours are not certified, effort is. 100% effort encompasses the total amount of time spent by a faculty or staff member to perform all of the activities required by his or her job with the University. Effort is not based on a 40-hour week. Individuals are required to certify 100% of their compensated effort of their base salary. Effort does not include summer pay or extra compensation payments. Faculty members must account not only for their sponsored program and training effort (whether sponsor paid or cost shared), but also their instruction/administrative effort (including nonsponsored personal research, scholarship, and artistic endeavors as well as classroom teaching) and their service to the University on committees, etc. Typically, graduate assistants have only 50% appointments. However, that 50% appointment constitutes their entire “job” with the University and therefore represents 100% of their compensated effort. Hence, their effort reports will show 100%. Why is Effort Reporting Important? Salaries and wages typically comprise the majority of direct costs charged to sponsored projects, therefore it is important to verify that salary and wage charges are appropriate. Appropriately certified effort reports provide auditable documentation to demonstrate to sponsors that they received the level of effort described and expected through the proposal process, the award process, and all post award communications with the sponsor. Both direct and indirect costs may be disallowed and penalties imposed after reimbursement if auditors find such documentation to be inadequate. In addition, criminal charges may be brought against the individual certifying falsified effort. What risk areas should we focus on as a school, college, or department? The following areas are receiving significant attention nationally: 100% research faculty - are they involved in activities that should be funded by sources other than their grants? Faculty with 5 or more federal awards - are they overcommitted? Are the percentages of salary distributed to each of their projects reasonable? Change in Level of Effort - are faculty seeking permission to change the level of effort proposed in their grant when required (typically when the change is 25% or more)? Faculty with less than 5% of their effort on many awards - are they contributing the effort promised? Faculty Effort Certification - is it timely? Retroactive Salary Cost Transfers - are they infrequent, but timely when necessary? Of particular concern are those affecting time periods for which faculty have already certified their effort. Total effort commitments (paid and cost shared) to the sponsor - are they met? University effort reporting policy - is it being followed? Who Should Certify Effort? All faculty and professional staff, including temporary instructors, graduate assistants, and temporary professional employees, who are paid by a sponsored program contract, grant, restricted fund or University cost share must certify effort for regular pay as part of the Effort Certification process. Following certification, the Principal Investigator (PI) must review and confirm that the salary charged and effort committed is reasonable in relation to actual effort spent. Additionally, sponsored projects are not limited to federal funds as the University applies the same standards for fiscal accountability to both federal and non-federal (state, local, etc.) sponsored projects. If the faculty member or employee is not available to certify their effort, it is critical that a person with first-hand knowledge of all of an employee’s effort or have suitable means of verifying that work was performed certify for the employee . How can I certify something as nebulous as "effort?" While the effort certification process suggests a high degree of precision, there is an acknowledgement that this is impossible and that the process is based on estimates. The federal regulation states: "It is recognized that, in an academic setting, teaching, research, service, and administration are often inextricably intermingled. A precise assessment of factors that contribute to costs is not always feasible, nor is it expected. Reliance, therefore, is placed on estimates in which a degree of tolerance is appropriate." When Should Effort be Certified? The timeline for distribution and completion of the reports by the certifier is as follows: 9 Month Faculty and 8/9 Month Graduate Assistants with Sponsored Activity Certifying activity during... Data available online... Certification deadline... September 1 – December 31 January 5 January 30 January 1 – April 30 May 5 May 31 May 1 – September 30 October 5 October 31 12 Month Faculty, Administrators, 12 Month Graduate Assistants with Sponsored Activity Certifying activity during... Data available online... Certification deadline... July 1 – December 31 January 5 January 30 January 1 – April 30 May 5 May 31 May 1 – June 30 June 26 June 30 What if I make a mistake on my effort certification? May I go back and correct it? Faculty are required to review, modify as necessary, and certify that the effort percentages for themselves and their key personnel are reasonable estimates of the actual work performed. Certified effort forms assert that the information represented is to the best of the certifier’s knowledge, accurate and complete. Changes to previously certified effort erode the credibility of the certifier as well as the entire effort certification process. For these reasons, changes to a certified effort form are not allowed except in limited circumstances, which require extensive documentation as to why the effort was originally certified incorrectly. What is the overall effort certification process? Detailed process maps for Certifiers (faculty, GAs, researchers working on a sponsored program) and for Principal Investigators are available online . Who should I contact for help? Please contact the Business Officer of the appropriate college or unit for help. Finance Program Guide Your online resource for all things related to the Banner Finance system Year-End Information Important dates and deadlines for year-end Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .