#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mgmt/2015FMGMT4510M50.pdf
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS COMMUNICATION AND NEGOTIATION MGMT 4510 M50 20158091719, FALL 20 1 5 PROFESSOR: Dr . Barbara D. Davis OFFICE: Room 328, Fogelman College AREA: Management PHONE/FAX: 678 - 3932 (phone) 678 - 2685 (fax) E - Mail: bddavis@memphis.edu Hours: Virtual h ours - 10 : 00 - 1 1 : 30 a.m. TTH PLEASE DO NOT Use D 2L email. Other times by appointment Course Management and materials: : REQUIR ED TEXT, SUPPLEMENTS AND READINGS Chaney, L. H., and Martin, J. S. (201 4 ). Intercultural b usiness c ommunication ( 6 th ed. ). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall. Supplemental Readings (To Be Assigned ) RE COMMENDED BOOKS: Clark, J. L., and Clark, L.R. (20 14 ). A handbook for office professionals: How 1 3 . Mason, OH: South - Western Cengage Learning. VandenBos, G. R. (Ed.). (2010). Publication m anual of the American Psychological Association, Sixth Edition. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. COURSE DESCRIPTION: Study of the importance of business communication to conducting global business effectively. Emphasis on organizational and interpersonal communication and negotiation skills needed in an integrated wor ld economy. Includes culture - based assumptions, contrasting cultural values, communication and negotiation strategies, verbal, nonverbal, and written communication patterns, laws, and cultural shock. COURSE OBJECTIVE: T o provide a theoretical and pr actical basis for conducting effective global communication. PREREQUISITES: MGMT 3510 plus the following requirements for all degree - seeking students in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics: completion of all required lower - division business co each; a minimum quality point average of 2.25 (accounting majors, 2.50) in all required lower - division business courses and MATH 1312; and 55 hours of course work including required 9 semester hours of English. Nonbusiness maj ors need junior or senior standing and must complete course prerequisites. The student has the responsibility of assuring that all requirements have been met; otherwise, the student may be administratively dropped. ACADEMIC COURSE REQUIREMENTS The fin al grade will be determined by the number of points earned on examinations, and class written and oral assignments and activities (individual and/or group). The total points you earn in each grade component of the course will be divided by the total po ints possible for that component. The appropriate percentage will then be calculated for each component to determine your final percentage/grade. (Plus/Minus [+/ - ] grading system will not be used in this class) Grade Components: Grading Scale : As signments 40 % A = 90 - 100% of total points possible Exams /Quizzes 2 0 % B = 80 - 89% of total points possible Reports (Oral/Written/Group) 40 % C = 70 - 79% of total points possible TOTAL 100% D = 60 - 69% of total points possib le T ECHNOLOGY AND SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS : M inimum hardware requirements for D2L compatibility can be found at . S oftware requirements are Microsoft Office Word or Adobe Acrobat Reader and Microsoft PowerPoint. No documents as a rich text file (rtf). T ECHNICAL SUPPORT : For technical difficulties with D2 L, first use the UMhelpdesk by filling out a form at: or calling 901.678.8888. WEEKS DEFINED: The c ourse week begins on Monday at 1:0 0 a.m. and end s on Sunday at 11: 00 p.m. G UID ELINES FOR COMMUNICATION : Instructor Contact: Please use bddavis@memphis.edu as the primary means for contacting the professor . If you wish to speak to the professor , please first email and after getting a confirm ed phone appointment, call on the date and time designated. The professor will make every attempt to respond to course email or discussion postings within 36 hours during the work week, though it may not be possible in some cases. Students will be notifie d when the professor is not available to meet the stated response time through course email, discussion board posting, and news feed. Virtual office hours are TTH: 10 : 0 0 a .m. to 11 : 30 a .m. S TUDENT RESPONSIBILITY (Attendance & Participation): Students sho uld login to the course at least every other day in order to stay current if changes to the course are made. Also note that the eCourseware system records the number of student login times and duration and that information is available to the professo r. At tendance is necessary for course success. Assignments, discussion postings, quizzes, projects, group activities, and tests are a part of the normal course week, so students MUST spend time in the course participating in these activities, especially if ther e are team activities and team members need to connect with other team members. For all required discussion posting assignments, including the team assignments, students MUST participate with 2 not only posting responses to assignments, but also interactin g with team members. Teams will be assigned at the beginning of the semester and will be announced to the students. Teams can choose their preferred method of communication whether it be through the course Discussion Board (where teams have assigned space) or with the Chat room or course email. Outside sites, such as Skype, may be used, but only if all students have access to the other methods or agree on other methods. E MAIL GUIDELINES : 4 510 M rong way. Be careful in wording your emails. formatting such as centering, audio messages, tables, html, etc. should be avoided unless necessary to complete an assignment or other communication. /remarks. D ISCUSSION POSTINGS and GROUP GUIDELINES : make insulting or inflammatory statements to other members of the discussion group nor the professor . ideas and the class management guidelines and procedures . ssion group members thoroughly before entering your remarks. Be respectful. C HAT GUIDELINES : Introduce yourself to the other learners in the chat session. Be constructive in your comments and suggestions. A SSIGNMENTS : All required assignments must be uploaded into eCourseware the due date by 11: 00 p.m., Central Standard Time. Individual assignments that are a com ponent of a Group assignment are due on a Wednesday by 11:00 a.m. NOTE: There is NO provision for make - up work; therefore, submit your work on the date due and the time specified. NO ASSIGNMENTS WILL BE ACCEP TED or excuse d regarding reasons f o r not prope rly attaching or uploading files, computer hardware, and so ftware technical difficulties. Any request to reconsider points earned on a graded assignment / exam must be in writing and must detail specifically the issues related to why the graded assignment should be reassessed. The written request should be r eceived within 7 days of the professor providing the graded assignment to the class. Professor will NOT accept emailed assignments, but only submissions through eCourseware dropbox. No exception make every effort to adhere to the course policies and course commitment. Class work will be graded on the basis of form, neatness, correctness, and accuracy. All homework feedback a nd points grade will be given electronically through eCourseware dropbox. Technology failure is not an excused reason for not submitting assignments, posting discussion responses, or taking tests. Students need to make sure that Internet connection is ade quate and have a backup plan such as visiting a local campus for computer use. Students should also save their files in multiple locations account (f or electronic record). Of course, any submission made into eCourseware dropbox is another permanent location of the assignment. DO NOT WAIT until the last minute to complete assignments. The professor WILL NOT accept assignments through email, because the assignment dropbox closed. Note that the Dropbox date stamps the time assignments are submitted and fl ags all late assignments. Late a ssignments will be handled as indicated based on the Homework and Syllabus Guidelines related to this topic. A SSIGNMENT SUBMISSION : Assignments are submitted in the eCourseware "Dropbox" area which is located in the bottom left - hand side toolbar (just below the UM logo). The "Dropbox" is the second area to click on, from the left. In the Dropbox area, students will find a p lace to submit each required individual assignment, including any bonus assignments. G o directly to the Dropbox in the toolbar menu to upload assignments . To upload an assignment for instructor assessment, the student must have saved that assignment in an MSWord or other acceptable formatted file to his or her computer first. Then click on the appropriate dropbox assignment name and scroll towards the bottom to click the "browse" button to find your file on the computer (very similar feel as an email attac hment). Double click. To add another file, just click the "add" button. Then Scroll towards the bottom to click the "submit" button. Once submitted and the computer accepts, you should see the file show up in blue. You can also tell that you've successfull y submitted the document by clicking on the "folder list" to see the list of all assignment dropbox areas and in the assignment dropbox where you've just submitted, you should see a "1" in the submissions column. T EAM ASSIGNMENTS : Teams will be formed at the beginning of the semester and the instructor will email the class with a list of team members. T eams may de termine their own communication method s and means, but certainly can use the chat room, course email, designated team discussion board area, or s ome other outside means of collaboration, such as Skype. However, each team must ensure that all team members are in agreement to the communication method. E XAMS : Exams will test all material discussed in postings , textbook, PowerPoint slides, and from as signments. Exams must be taken as indicated on the schedule . Exam one (1) and two (2) will cover only the assigned chapters as noted. See eCourseware for scheduled exam dates. NO PROVISION IS MADE FOR MISSING THE EXAM ACCORDING TO SCHEDUL ING GUIDELINES . Pl ease immediately notify the professor if there is a schedule problem, but note that the professor reserves the right to only allow for an extreme or unusual circumstance (which is rare). If an exam is missed, then the comprehensive final (Exam 3 ) will be r equired. For those students who wish to take the comprehensive exam (Exam 3 ) , it is optional. The highest score for 2 of 3 exams will be averaged into your course grade ( 2 00 test points). Moreover, if the comprehensive final exam three (3) is taken, then t he lowest test grade will be dropped. No more than one (1) exam can be missed. If more than one exam is missed missed exam. Exams are comprised of a mix of multiple - choice and true and false. Each exam i s worth 100 points . Exams can be found exams are to be taken by you, the student, and without any assistance from any other person. You are on your honor. Please refer to the University policy on student conduct in regard to cheating. The professor will adhere to the disciplinary policy regarding student misconduct. See U of M Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities ( ). Additionally, the exams are time d and only allow for one attempt. Students should prepare in advance prior to exam day as one would when in an on - ground campus course. Once the exam is started, the student must finish the exam. If the student should end the exam too soon without questions answered, then the exam will be free of distractions and with a good Internet con nection. Q UIZZES : There are six quizzes to be taken during the semester calendar in eCourseware. Quizzes are to be taken by clicking on the Quizzes tab in eCourseware. Quizzes are timed and once started, will be graded upon co mpletion. Note that only one attempt is given for the quizzes also. A CADEMIC DISHONESTY/HONOR CODE : Students are expected to recognize and uphold standards of intellectual and academic integrity as set forth in the University of Memphis Code of Student Ri ghts and Responsibilities . See: Academic dishonesty of any sort will not be tolerated . Your professor will adhere to the University policies related to aca demic dishonesty. Dishonest acts related to academic work, include cheating on exams, falsification, and multiple submissions. If plagiarism occurs, the student, at minimum, may b e subject to failure of the assignment and/or course. Further action could be taken, up to and including expulsion from the University . Plagiarism is the ( Lehman & DuFrene, 201 4 , p. 1 5 9 ). [ BCOM 6 . Mason, OH: South - Western Cengage Learning] Students are highly advised to complete the University of Memphis plagiarism tutorial located at: t.php?pid=453733&sid=3718318 Turnitin Statement : option. This e lectronic detection method evaluat es the originality of your ideas as well as the proper use and attribution of sources. By taking this course, you agree that all assignments may undergo this review process and that the assignment may be included as a source document in Turnitin.com's restricted access database solely for the purpose of detecting plagiarism in such documents. Any assignment not submitted according to the procedures given by the professor Office of Legal Counsel, October 17, 2005) . D RS Statement. Any student who anticipat es physical or academic barriers based on the impact of a disability is encouraged to speak with me privately. Students with disabilities should also contact Disability Resources for Students (DRS) at 110 Wilder Tower, 901 - 678 - 2880 ( . DRS coordinates access and accommodations for students with disabilities. BBA DEGREE PROGRAM LEARNING OUTCOMES The learning outcomes for this degree program are located on the follow ing URL. Notice that Goals indicate Learning Outcomes for the degree program. The objectives under each learning outcome indicate what must be done to reach the learning outcome. Faculty members in the Fogelman College developed these learning outcomes and periodically assess students to determine the level that the learning outcomes are being met. URL: ingOutcomes.pdf Resources, Education and Writing Assistance (FREE): APA format websites : du/owl/resource/560/01/ or Alphanumeric Outline Example: Career Corner: Career Services: Educational Support Program (ESP) - provides academic counseling, contact information is sp/supplemental.php Professional Development Center Programs: The Business Learning Center : (Room 256, FCBE) - provides tutoring in accounting, statistics, fin ance, management, and marketing. Writing assistance is also available in Patterson, Room 225 only. Contact number is 901.678.3912. The Center for Writing and Communication: , First Floor Ned R. McWherter Library Tutoring: General tutoring ( ) Writing and online tutoring ( ) Univer sity of Memphis /Fogelman College plagiarism policy and helpful tutorials: Plagiarism Study efficiencies/time management - Mitchell Hall, Room 207