#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/graduate/schabout.php
School Psychology Program - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources Graduate Clinical About the Program Clinical Faculty Child Clinical Clinical Health Psychology Psychotherapy Research Admission Clinical Student Handbook Clinical Forum Schedule Experimental About the Program Experimental Faculty Cognitive Behavioral Neuroscience Required Courses Admission Financial Support School About the Programs School Faculty Child &amp; Family Studies Research Group Historical Statement Financial Support M.S./Ph.D. Program Philosophy and Training Model M.S./Ph.D. Program Goals and Objectives Doctoral Handbook Resources and Information School Psychology Association M.A./Ed.S.Program Goals What is a School Psychologist Masters in General Psychology About the Program Program Goals Required Courses Admission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for Applying Department Application Graduate School Application Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCC GSCC Concerns/Complaints GSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources APA Required Disclosures Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Home Department of Psychology Graduate School Psychology Program School Psychology Programs The University of Memphis offers two degree programs in school psychology. The Master of Arts (MA) and Educational Specialist (EdS ) degree program is designed for persons seeking nondoctoral preparation for practice as a school psychologist, primarily in public school settings. Students complete the MA degree of 37 semester hours and then enter the EdS degree program and complete an additional 30 semester hours including an internship ( see more information in the program handbook ). The MA/EdS program usually takes three years to complete. Graduates obtain a credential to practice as a school psychologist from the Tennessee State Department of Education or similar agency in other states. More than 120 program graduates now serve as school psychologists in the Mid-South Region and across the United States. The program is approved by the National Association of School Psychologists and formally accredited as part of the education unit at the University of Memphis by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation. For more information about the MA/EdS program, contact program director Dr. Thomas Fagan at tfagan@memphis.edu . The Doctor of Philosophy program is designed to prepare students for various school psychology roles in public school and community settings and for academic careers. It places a strong emphasis on scientific thinking, research design, and statistics; offers advanced practicum experiences in school, hospital, and clinic settings; and allows students to develop expertise in an area of subspecialization. Numerous clinical, supervision, and teaching experiences are provided, and a year-long internship is required. A thesis and a dissertation must be completed. The degree program currently requires at least 100 semester hours and is usually completed over a 5-year period ( see more information in the program handbook ). Students and program graduates have been highly successful in publishing research and other scholarly work in journals, books, and other outlets ( see a list of publications at this link ), and students have been highly successful in obtaining APA-accredited internships ( see a list of these internships at this link ). Graduates are employed in public schools, developmental disabilities and medical centers, and academic positions in Hawaii, Illinois, Louisiana, North Carolina, Nebraska, Tennessee, and Texas. For more information about the program's admissions, outcomes, and other data, follow this link ( School Student Admissions, Outcomes and other Data ). As of March 28, 2014, the doctoral program is accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA), and its next accreditation site visit will be held in 2021 . Information about APA accreditation can be found by contacting the Commission on Accreditation of the American Psychological Association at the Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation; 750 First Street, NE; Washington, DC 20002-4242; Phone: 202.336.5979; and TDD/TTY: 202.336.6123. The Commission on Accreditation’s website is For more information about the doctoral program, contact program director Dr. Randy Floyd at rgfloyd@memphis.edu . The University of Memphis Graduate Catalog has important details about admission requirements. Core School Psychology Faculty Dr. Thomas Fagan Professor and Director of the MA/EdS Program Rm. 115 Psychology Bldg. University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152-3230 901-678-4676 tfagan@memphis.edu Ph.D. 1969, Kent State University Interests: School psychology foundations, history and development of the field, and demographic characteristics Dr. Randy Floyd Professor and Director of the PhD Program Rm. 332 Psychology Bldg. University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152-3230 901-678-4846 rgfloyd@memphis.edu Ph.D. 1999, Indiana State University Interests: Psychoeducational assessment, theories of intelligence, academic achievement, and the process and products of publication in peer-reviewed journals Dr. Elizabeth Meisinger Associate Professor and Associate Director of the PhD Program Rm. 360 Psychology Bldg. University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152-3230 901-678-3435 bmsinger@memphis.edu Ph.D. 2006, University of Georgia Interests: Academic and behavioral interventions, development of literacy skills, and school mental health Dr. Xu (Lilya) Jiang Assistant Professor of Psychology Rm. 306 Psychology Bldg. University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152-3230. 901-678-4473 Office xjiang2@memphis.edu Ph.D. 2015, University of South Carolina Interests: School psychology consultation and interventions, positive youth development, prevention and wellness promotion. Graduate Clinical About the Program Clinical Faculty Child Clinical Clinical Health Psychology Psychotherapy Research Admission Clinical Student Handbook Clinical Forum Schedule Experimental About the Program Experimental Faculty Cognitive Behavioral Neuroscience Required Courses Admission Financial Support School About the Programs School Faculty Child &amp; Family Studies Research Group Historical Statement Financial Support M.S./Ph.D. Program Philosophy and Training Model M.S./Ph.D. Program Goals and Objectives Doctoral Handbook Resources and Information School Psychology Association M.A./Ed.S.Program Goals What is a School Psychologist Masters in General Psychology About the Program Program Goals Required Courses Admission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for Applying Department Application Graduate School Application Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCC GSCC Concerns/Complaints GSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources APA Required Disclosures Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .