#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/pdfs/power_scan_2000.pdf
Instructions for using Power Scan 2000 1. If you are an authorized University of Memphis user, log in with your UUID and password. Once logged in, you can save items to the desktop and then transfer the file to a removable drive, email it, or upload it to your UMDrive. If you are a g uest of the University, please ask someone in the User Assistance Room (near elevator) or RIS Desk (1 st floor) to log you in as a Guest . Only those guests needing the scan funct ion will be logged in. If needing a computer for general purposes, please use the guest computers in the first floor Learning Commons area. 2. Double click on the Power Scan 2000 icon on the desktop and wait for the computer to discover the scanner. The scanner lamp will turn on. 3. If not already on, turn on the Scanner (back of scanner). A small green light on the front of the scanner indicates power is on. 4. Pull out the microfiche carrier tray to load microfilm. A diagram will appear on the screen with directions for loading the film. 5. Once the film is loaded, move the microfiche carrier tray back in. 6. The Film Selection Wizard shows graphic i cons of different film types (35 mm, 16mm, microfiche, etc.). Click on the icon that matches your film type to set up the scanner for that film. 7. Use the M otorized Roll Film Control to move forward or backward on the film. To adjust on screen, move the microfiche carrier in and out or sideways. 8. Use the BASIC, ADVANCED, and SCAN/PRINT tabs to manipulate the image and to scan or print pages. a. Tools on the BASIC tab allow you to straighten, crop, adjust, zoom, focus, change film type from positive to negative, rotate the film in 90 - degree increments, and create a mirror image of the page . b. The ADVANCED tab allows you to magnify, control brightness and contrast, spot - edit (draw with pencil, block out sections, or erase), manually straighten an image Note: the item will not print in magnification mode; this button is used merely to view the item in a larger size. 9. The SCAN/PRINT tab allows you to print or scan the item to the My Scans folder on the Desktop where it can be uploaded to the UMDrive , emailed, or saved to a removable storage device. To print, guests should click on Go Print. The print job will go to the Go Print machine near the elevator on the firs t floor. Unive rsity of Memphis faculty, staff, and students should click on Learning Commons. T he print job will go to the Printer #3 in the first floor Learning Commons . Examples of adjustment icons Magnify Brightness Contrast Spot - Edit Manual Zoom Film Type Rotate Mirror Straig hten To scan an image for printing/saving , drag the green box to frame the page or portion of the adjusting at one of the sides or by pulling the entire frame from a corner . Only items within the green crop box will be scanned. Click on the S ave button in the SCAN/PRINT folder. All scans will appear on the desktop in the folder called My Scans. From there, you can email the file, upload it to your UMDrive, or save to a removable storage devic e. ***NOTE: Once you log off, all saved scans are lost.*** To combine scanned documents into one .pdf file: 1. Click Save button in the SCAN/PRINT folder 2. When the Save As menu pops up, c lick on the dropdo w n arrow and select PDF (multipage ) (*.PDF) 3. Name the document 4. Save (Do not click Finish until done) 5. Move the green box to the next image to be scanned and Click S ave button in the SCAN/PRINT folder (scan count increases with each scan ) 6. Click Finish 7. M ulti - page file s will be on the Desktop in the My Scans folder. You can upload the file to your UMDrive , email it , or save it on a removable storage device (FYI: 21 pages with no images=2 MB; 24 pages with images=10 MB ). There is a Help button on each folder tab that is searchable. Make sure you rewind the reel or remove the microfiche and log out of your account when d one. ( Updated September 28 , 2011 )