#http://www.memphis.edu/admissions/transfer/apply_ugrd.php
Apply for Admissions - Admissions - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Admissions Freshmen Transfer Readmit Graduate Law International High School Transfers Getting Started Application Checklist Request Information Meet Your Counselor Dual Admissions Equivalency Table Visit the Campus Academic Programs Career Services Undergraduate Catalog Campus Life Apply for Admissions Admission Requirements Residency Information EVEA Application Deadline Border County Waiver Non-Resident Tuition Apply Now! What to Expect Acknowledgement Application Review Admission Decision Transfer Credit and Placement TN Transfer Pathways Equivalency Table Transfer Credit Evaluation Math Placement COMPASS Testing Center After Acceptance Advising Registration ID Card Parking Fee Payment Home Admissions Transfers Apply for Admissions Apply for Undergraduate Admission Students should choose the application that best fits their intentions. Applications are generally available approximately one year before the term the student wishes to enter. If you applied to the University of Memphis previous, but did not enroll at that time, select the "Additional Application" option to avoid paying the application fee a second time. Readmission is available to those who previously enrolled at the University of Memphis and are now seeking to return. Degree-Seeking Applications First-Time Freshman Application Additional Freshman Application (applied before/never enrolled) - Check the status of this application Choose the "Readmission Application" after logging in to avoid paying the application fee First-Time Transfer Application Additional Transfer Application (applied before/never enrolled) - Check the status of this application Choose the "Readmission Application" after logging in to avoid paying the application fee Readmission Application - Check the status of this application For those who had previously been enrolled at the University of Memphis, but who have not been enrolled at the University for at least one Fall or Spring semester Choose the "Readmission Application" after logging in to avoid paying the application fee International Student Application - Check the status of this application For students who plan to enroll at the University on a student visa. Non-Degree-Seeking Applications Non-Degree Application - Check the status of this application Completing courses for personal enrichment, not to complete a degree Select "Non-Degree" as your major on the application No financial aid is available for Non-Degree status Information for Transient Students Currently enrolled at another post-secondary institution and plan to transfer your UofM course(s) back to that institution upon completion Select "Non-Degree" as your major on the application For more information, consult the Transient Student page. Dual Enrollment Application Contact your school counselor to see if your high school participates Completing these courses before high school graduation Transfers Getting Started Application Checklist Request Information Meet Your Counselor Dual Admissions Equivalency Table Visit the Campus Academic Programs Career Services Undergraduate Catalog Campus Life Apply for Admissions Admission Requirements Residency Information EVEA Application Deadline Border County Waiver Non-Resident Tuition Apply Now! What to Expect Acknowledgement Application Review Admission Decision Transfer Credit and Placement TN Transfer Pathways Equivalency Table Transfer Credit Evaluation Math Placement COMPASS Testing Center After Acceptance Advising Registration ID Card Parking Fee Payment Meet Your Counselor Meet the counselor assigned to assist you. Request Information Sign up as a True Blue Tiger. Visit the Campus Sign up for your own tour of the University of Memphis. Upcoming Events Learn what it means to be a Tiger! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .