#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/current_students/fellowships/awards_fellowships.php
Awards and Fellowships - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Current Students Contact Us Fellowship and Scholarship Information Graduate Assistantship Information Graduate School Calendar Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Orientation Presentation Graduation Information Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide Home Graduate School Current Students Awards and Fellowships AWARDS AND FELLOWSHIPS 2015 Fellowship Information for Incoming Graduate Students 2015 Fellowship Information for Currently Enrolled Students Information about graduate awards and fellowships, including the nomination and application forms, can be obtained in the Graduate School, 201C FedEx Institute of Technology. All fellowship/award deadlines are subject to change. Please check with the Graduate School for confirmation of deadlines. Students must be nominated by their departments or colleges for the following awards listed below. Department/colleges should use the Nomination Form to verify that all required documentation is included (see the Documentation Table ). Van Vleet Memorial Doctoral Award: Incoming doctoral students in the designated science fields of School of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Geological Sciences, Mathematical Sciences, Microbiology and Molecular Cell Sciences, Psychology, Biomedical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Public Health are eligible for this award and must be nominated by their respective department chair. Nominees must be submitted to the Graduate School by February 5, 2016 . The $16,000 stipend plus tuition scholarship is renewable for four years. Morton Thesis/Dissertation Awards are a result of a generous donation by S. Morgan Morton ('63). The awards honor an outstanding master's and doctoral student whose thesis or dissertation prospectus has been approved by their committee. The thesis award is $500 and the dissertation award is $750. Department Chairs should submit nominations to their College Dean by February 16, 2016. College Deans should nominate students to the Graduate School by March 14, 2016. Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Awards are given to two outstanding teaching assistants. Candidates are nominated by faculty, students, alumni, or their respective college dean. The deadline for nominations to be submitted to the Graduate School is March 14, 2016. Each college will have its own internal selection process prior to the March 13th deadline. The award recipients each receive $500. Part-time Master's Fellowships are awarded to entering students. The $1500 awards ($750 per semester) do not include a tuition scholarship. Students must be fully admitted to a graduate degree program by February 22, 2016. The deadline for the academic year 2015-2016 is May 13, 2016. Students may apply directly to the Graduate School for the following fellowships, using the Self-Application Form and verifying that all required documentation is included (see the Documentation Table ). The University of Memphis Society, Inc. Doctoral Fellowship, established by UMS, Inc., is awarded annually to a full-time doctoral student based on exceptional academic achievement. The amount varies from year to year. The application deadline is March 14, 2016. The First Generation Ph.D. Fellowship Program provides financial assistance to graduate students who are underrepresented in their respective disciplines and who will become the first person in their immediate families to earn a doctoral degree. The application deadline is March 18, 2016. The following two awards, although funded by the Graduate School, are chosen through the College of Communication and Fine Arts and are open only to students in that College. Creative Achievement Awards (up to $500) are given to graduate students from the College of Communication and Fine Arts for outstanding work in the performing arts, film and architecture. Department chairs should submit nominations to the CCFA Associate Dean for Graduate Studies (consult associate dean for deadline). Nominations are due to the Graduate School. Art Purchase Award (up to $1000) covers the price of an art work chosen by the outside juror at the Annual Juried Student Exhibit each Spring. Additional Fellowship Information Applications for the following fellowships should be submitted to the unit listed below: The Fogelman College of Business and Economics The Dr. Kenneth R. Austin and Janet Austin Graduate Fellowship in the amount of $1,000 is awarded annually to a graduate student enrolled in the Master of Science with concentration in Accounting program. The fellowship is based on grade point average, GMAT score, and interpersonal and communication skills. The Dr. Gabrial P. Racz Leadership Fellowship in the amount of $150 is awarded each semester to a full-time graduate student majoring in accounting. The recipient must exhibit outstanding leadership skills. The Robert B. Sweeney Graduate Fellowship in the amount of $1,000 is awarded annually to a master's student majoring in accounting. The recipient must have an undergraduate degree in accounting, and must have an undergraduate GPA of at least 3.50 or a GMAT score of at least 600. The College of Education, Health and Human Sciences The Dr. R. Eugene Smith Fellowship equivalent to in-state tuition is awarded annually to a graduate student pursuing studies in higher education administration. The Herff College of Engineering The Herff Engineering Fellowship is a $10,000, three-year, renewable award for graduate students in Engineering. The Herff Engineering Doctoral Fellowship is a $15,000 per year, three-year award for graduate students in Engineering pursuing a Ph.D. degree in which the research emphasis is in an area related to Biomedical Engineering. The School of Communication Sciences and Disorders The CSD Alumni Chapter Fellowship is awarded each spring semester to a graduate student in Communication Sciences and Disorders. The recipient must demonstrate outstanding clinical skills and support of student and departmental activities. The Marion G. Evans/Exchange Club of East Memphis Fellowship is awarded annually to a graduate student training to work with the hearing impaired. The University of Memphis Association of Retirees The University of Memphis Association Of Retirees (UMAR) awards a scholarship to a currently enrolled graduate student at the university. The scholarship is a one-time award in the amount of $1,000 for the academic year and is not renewable for the following year. In addition to being a graduate student at the University of Memphis, applicants must provide at least one letter of recommendation, provide a statement (not to exceed 100 words) as how this scholarship will benefit his/her professional goals and may be interviewed by the selection committee. Preference will be given to current university employees as well as dependents of current employees or of members of UMAR.Deadline: Monday, March 2, 2015. The application is available at: Federal Financial Aid Loans are available to degree-seeking graduate students through Federal Financial Aid. Additional information may be obtained in the Student Financial Aid Office by calling 901.678.4825; in person at Wilder Tower, Room 103; or on-line at . Types of Loans Handled by the Student Financial Aid Office: Federal Unsubsidized Stafford Loan - variable rate of interest (adjusts once a year on July 1st), not to exceed 8.25%. Loans are processed through the university. Unsubsidized Stafford Loan - not based on financial need, annual limit is the lessor of your total cost, minus other aid (graduate assistantships and/or fee waivers, borrower is responsible for interest while in school, during grace period, and repayment. NOTE: The unsubsidized Stafford Loans cannot exceed the annual limit of $20,500.00 depending on the university's cost of attendance and other assistance already received or expected for the year. Alternative Loans - variable interest rate, not federally funded, private agencies, usually perform credit check. Applying for Financial Aid: For priority award consideration for Fall 2016 apply by March 1, 2016. Applications or renewal for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) can be completed on-line at . If you are selected for verification, you will need to provide your 2016 tax return and verification documents. External Sources of Financial Assistance Financial assistance opportunities are also available through sources external to The University of Memphis. Information regarding these opportunities can be found in the Reference Section of the library or on the Internet. The Southern Regional Education Board (SREB) offers a Doctoral Scholars Program to encourage ethnic minority students to pursue doctoral degrees and become college-level teachers. For information contact the Graduate School or contact: Doctoral Scholars Program Southern Regional Education Board 592 Tenth St. NW Atlanta, GA 30318-5790 (404) 875-9211 The Council of Graduate Schools , which The University of Memphis is a member, also has information available regarding fellowships and financial aid. Graduate Fellowship Programs in Natural Sciences NSF graduate research fellowship program, solicitation , program website , internal materials including successful applications from a UM student and alumnus, deadlines range from October 26-30 depending on discipline. National Defense Science &amp; Engineering Graduate Fellowship (NDSEG): website , deadline December 18, 2016 . Science, Mathematics &amp; Research for Transformation (SMART): website , deadline December 1, 2016 , this program has a post-graduation service requirement. NIH National Research Service Awards (F series fellowships): website , Deadlines the 8th of April, August, and December . NASA Jenkins Pre-doctoral Fellowship: NASA website , UNCF website , applicants must be from underrepresented groups. Current Students Contact Us Fellowship and Scholarship Information Graduate Assistantship Information Graduate School Calendar Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Orientation Presentation Graduation Information Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .