#http://www.memphis.edu/history/faculty/faculty/suzanne-onstine.php
Suzanne L. Onstine - Department of History - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of History Why History? Undergraduate Graduate Online Faculty HERC GAAAH Faculty Faculty Adjunct Emeriti Graduate and Teaching Assistants Faculty/Staff Resources Home Department of History Faculty Suzanne L. Onstine Suzanne L. Onstine Associate Professor Phone 901.678.3383 Email sonstine@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2720 Office 101 Mitchell Office Hours Contact for an appointment Website Fall 2015 Courses: 4320/6320 Ancient Near East 1110 World Civ. 1 7320/8320 Ancient Studies: Archaeology and History for Egyptologists Education PhD University of Toronto, MA University of Toronto, BA University of Arizona Fields of interest Egyptology: social history, women and gender, religion, archaeology, Theban Tombs, New Kingdom, Third Intermediate Period, Late Period, Predynastic era, Nubia Courses taught 1110 World Civ. I 3320 Ancient World 4320/6320 Ancient Near East 4321/6321 Egypt of the Pharaohs 4322 Ancient Rome 4323Ancient Greece Graduate seminars on Egyptology (7320, 8320, 7070, 8070) Special topics classes on Nubia; Archaeology and History Representative Publications Books Published/Accepted for Publication • The Tomb of Panehsy in Dra abu el-Naga: a study of use and reuse in the Theban necropolis (under contract with E.J Brill of Leiden). • The Role of the Chantress (Smayt) in Ancient Egypt (2005, British Archaeological Reports, London) Journal Articles • "Women's participation in the religious hierarchy of Ancient Egypt" in Women in Antiquity: Real Women Across the Ancient World (forthcoming) • "Prosthesis for the Afterlife. Mummified Individuals Found in the Ramesside Tomb of Panehsy, Theban Tomb (TT) 16. Luxor Egypt." Co-authored with Jesus Herrerín, Miguel Sanchez, Elizabeth Warkentin, Virginia Reckard, and Tiffany Redman. Forthcoming in Journal of the American Research Center in Egypt 50, (2014). • "A Preliminary Report on the Clearance of Theban Tomb 16 in Dra abu el Naga at Thebes" Book chapter (invited) in Archaeological Research in the Valley of the Kings and Ancient Thebes (2013). Ed. Pearce Paul Creasman. pgs. 227 - 240 • "A brief report on the University of Memphis mission to Theban Tomb 16 in Dra abu el-Naga." Newsletter of the Society of the Study for Egyptian Antiquities summer 2012. • "University of Memphis Mission to Theban Tomb 16: The life of Panehsy, chanter and priest" Journal of the American Research Center in Egypt 47, 2011, p. 231-236. • "Gender and the Religion of Ancient Egypt" in Religion Compass online journal of religion :// • "Mesaid Miscellanea", Journal of the Society for the Study of Egyptian Antiquities vol. 32(2005) [published 2007]. • "Musician Priestesses in Ancient Egypt", The Ostracon. Vol. 13, no. 2; Summer 2002. • "Women in Ancient Egypt" Egypt Revealed June, 2001. • "The Relationship between Re and Osiris in the Book of Caverns", Journal of the Society for the Study of Egyptian Antiquities vol. 25 (1995) [published 1998]. Administration/Service I am the faculty advisor for the Egyptology Graduate Student Association (EGSA) and RSO group for our Egyptology graduate students. Current projects I am currently the director of the University of Memphis Mission to Theban Tomb 16 (Panehsy). We are studying a 19th dynasty tomb and the secondary burials made in it through epigraphy, archaeology, and forensic studies of the human remains. We have been working in TT16 since 2008 and have unearthed hundreds of bones and mummy fragments Faculty Faculty Adjunct Emeriti Graduate and Teaching Assistants Faculty/Staff Resources History Happenings The department reports, as they occur, significant happenings that involve our faculty, students, staff, and alumni. Newsletter The department newsletter is filled with interesting articles and information about our award-winning faculty and students. Event Calendar Plan to attend events of historical interest. Contact Us Contact the Department of History at The University of Memphis. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .