#http://www.memphis.edu/commencement/graduates/cap-and-gown-pickup.php
Cap and Gown Pick-up - Commencement Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Graduates Graduating Students Attendance &amp; Non-Attendance Form Program Proof Cord &amp; Stole Policy Dress Undergraduates Checklist Honors Distinction Graduate Students Checklist Graduate School Requirements Hooding Information Law Checklist Law School Information Cap and Gown Pick up Announcer Information Record Difficult Name Graduation Analyst College School List Diagrams Invitations Photos Alumni /FAM Membership FAQs Home Commencement Office Graduates Cap and Gown Pick-up Cap and Gown Pick-up Picking up your cap and gown will occur 1-2 days prior to YOUR Commencement ceremony. Upcoming Cap and Gown distribution Cap and Gown Distribution Days &amp; Times FRIDAY, August 7, 2015 from 8:30 a.m.-4:00 p.m. in the University Center Ballroom located on the third floor of the University Center on the main campus. wHAT DO i NEED? In order to pick up your cap and gown, you will need to be approved for graduation, name must be in the Commencement program, and you must have completed Step 4 (The Attendance/Non-Attendance Form). Print and bring a copy of your Attendance Form Confirmation (we can view it from your mobile device). During cap and gown pick up, you will also receive your pronouncer card. Undergraduate with honors distinction in the program, will NOT pick up your honor cords until graduation day. They will be in your lineup. No other student organizations or honor societies' cords and stoles are provided by the Commencement Office. All additional cords and stoles must be purchased by the individual through their own organization. Decoration and adornments to caps and gowns are NOT allowed. More details below. Graduate Students do not receive academic honors cords but can wear cords from their undergraduate study. Pronouncer cards Pronouncer cards are received when you pick up your cap and gown. All students participating in the event must have a pronouncer card in order to participate. Do NOT lose or leave your pronouncer card. You will be unable to participate if you do not bring this card. Use the number on your pronouncer card to line yourself up when you arrive and find your college lineup. Hold on to the card throughout the event. (Good tip: Where an outfit with pockets.) You will hand the card to the Pronouncer Assistant who will use the card to say your name during your graduation moment. Cap Decorations and hoods The University of Memphis Commencement Office has a rental agreement with the cap and gown vendor. So, we appreciate your assistance in keeping our costs down. Your fees only pay for a rental. All parts, including the cap, must be returned after usage and cannot be kept or decorated. If you decorate your cap, you will be charged and your diploma held. Instructions for Wearing Regalia Hood (Doctoral, Specialist, Master and Law) To insure proper fit of your hood, we suggest that men wear a dress shirt and women wear a blouse with buttons or a suit. Hold the hood in your hand by the velvet at the narrowest point. The loop should be hanging straight down. Grasp the loop in your right hand and place the hood over your head so the loop continues to hang straight down in front of your neck. Fasten the loop over a button on your shirt/blouse or jacket, or you may pin it in place. This will prevent the hood from pressing on your throat. Midway down the back of the hood you will find another satin cord and loop. Fasten this loop around the button on the inside of the hood to prevent the hood from falling off your shoulders. This may require the assistance of another person. Be sure to have someone "fluff" the back of the hood just below the button, by turning the velvet side underneath to expose the satin colors on the inside. when/where do I return my cap and gown? Caps, gowns and hoods are rentals and MUST be returned in the same way received. All items should be returned after Commencement to the vendor truck (located downstairs behind the stage) If you wish to keep your regalia (cap, gown and hood) to take pictures, you have ONE week to return it to the Commencement Office, 101 Brister Hall, 8:00 am - 4:30 pm (M-F) There is a tag to identify each gown and hat. Unable to attend distribution day If you are unable to pick up your cap and gown or if you are not attending Commencement, see more information below: Send a Designee If you are unable to pick up your cap and gown, you can send a designee on your behalf. You must contact the Commencement Office via email with your name, name of designee and stating permission. The designee must bring a photo ID to pick up your items. Not Attending If you are not attending Commencement, you do not need your cap and gown, but you can borrow it to take pictures and return it one week to 101 Brister Hall. Graduates Graduating Students Attendance &amp; Non-Attendance Form Program Proof Cord &amp; Stole Policy Dress Undergraduates Checklist Honors Distinction Graduate Students Checklist Graduate School Requirements Hooding Information Law Checklist Law School Information Cap and Gown Pick up Announcer Information Record Difficult Name Graduation Analyst College School List Diagrams Invitations Photos Alumni /FAM Membership FAQs Contact Us Got questions? Let us know how we may assist you. Commencement Attendance Form Will you be attending Commencement? Inform us! News Keep up with Commencement related information. Commencement Live Can't attend Commencement? Watch it live! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .