#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/so-you-want-to-teach-in-higher-edu.pdf
So You Want to Teach in Higher Education? What kind of education do you need to be able to teach in a college or university? The answer depends on what level or Carnegie classification ( ) you wish to teach at as well as other matters. Community Colleges Each state will have its own rules, so if you are targeting a particular state, go to their website and look for the information. Or look at a particular community college employment site to see what they are requiring. Tennessee requires that an instructor have 18 credits of coursework at the graduate level in the discipline you want to teach. However, community colleges in urban areas often ha ve multiple applicants to positions The certificate in community college teaching and leadership (see - certificate.htm ) is not a teaching certificate for community college teachers. K - 12 teachers do need teacher certification, but instructors in higher education do not. Four - Year Colleges Here is where the locatio n of the college is important as is the Carnegie level of the college and the discipline to be taught. s and doctoral - level institutions have program and institutional accreditation standards that they must meet, and generally, these require that i nstructors have a degree above the course level they are teaching and that the degree be in the field that they are teaching . Individuals teaching undergraduates must have the doc toral degree. And if you teach math, you will need a graduate degree in mathematics. In this instance, a doctoral degree in Adult Education or Higher Education may not be the best choice for you. Here is the relevant language from SACS (Southern Associatio n of Colleges and Schools): faculty semester h educational experiences. Other accreditors may have di fferent language. However, sometime s more rural four - year colleges or disciplines with few doctoral programs have difficulty finding doctorally - trained individuals so they may be more amenable to individuals with the doctorate in Adult Education or Higher Education. Both of our Adult Education and Higher Education programs have several graduates in faculty positions but they are teaching in small er colleges, in disciplines that have no or few doctoral programs, or they were hired with the expectation they would gain the doctorate as they taught for their institution. Consider You need to know that you can teach with a doctorate in Adult Education or Higher Education, but not everywhere. Generally, faculty who want to focus on enhancing their teaching are drawn to the Adult Education concentration and faculty considering an administrative career are drawn to the Higher Education concentration. If y consider the pros and cons of various options.