#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/services/awards_special.php
Special Awards - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Services to Students Special Awards Special Awards Maria Leonard Scholarship Award is presented annually by Alpha Lambda Delta, national scholastic honor society, to the senior member of the society with the highest academic average. Golden Key National Honor Society presents annually two scholarships to junior and senior members of the local chapter who have excelled in scholarship, leadership and participation in activities. Phi Kappa Phi Scholarship Awards are presented annually to five undergraduate and graduate members who demonstrate high scholastic ability and excellent leadership, who provide meaningful service to the University, and who will continue their studies at the University. The David A. Collins-Omicron Delta Kappa Leadership Scholarship Award is presented to a member of the U of M Circle who will continue studies at the graduate level, who has shown responsible and effective leadership, who has made significant contributions to the student body, and who inspires and encourages others to use their leadership talents for the benefit of their peers. The Honors Program Director’s Award is presented to an honors student for outstanding academic performance in an honors curriculum. The Jimmy Carter Presidential Award for Volunteerism is presented to that student who best exemplifies the spirit of volunteerism and action that helps alleviate human need. The Joseph R. Riley Student Service Award is presented for outstanding service to the Honors Program and the Honors Student Association. The Samuel T. Boswell Student Leadership Award is presented in recognition of outstanding leadership in campus issues and activities, example set for peers, the display of personal and political courage, and/or community involvement. Rosetta I. Miller Award is presented to the outstanding woman student who has returned to college despite significant hardships. Greek All-Sing Follies Scholars Merit Awards : Scholarships of $250 each are awarded annually by the Interfraternity Council to the pledge/associate from the previous fall or spring semester who attained the highest grade point average, and to the fraternity member with the highest grade point average over the past two consecutive semesters. The Women’s Panhellenic Council annually awards one $250 scholarship to the sorority member who has attained the highest scholastic average. In addition, a Pledge Scholarship in the amount of $250 is awarded to the fall semester pledge who attained the highest average for the semester. Two Panhellenic Council scholarships are awarded each spring to the PHC fraternity man and sorority woman who have obtained the highest cumulative grade point average for the previous year. Awards are in the amount of $250 each. Women’s Intercollegiate Athletics Scholar Award is presented annually to the woman athlete who has maintained the highest grade point average while at the University. T he Elma Roane Outstanding Woman Athlete Award is presented to the junior or senior woman athlete who best exemplifies the following qualities: drive, enthusiasm, determination, concern for others, love for athletics, maturity, involvement in campus activities, and self discipline in all aspects of life. Campus Recreation and Intramurals Awards are presented annually to the intramural Greek, intramural Independent Resident, Panhellenic Manager of the Year, and Outstanding Official of the Year who show leadership and interest in the intramural program. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .