#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mktg/2015FMKTG4630001.pdf
Course Syllabus MKTG 4630 - 001 Social Communication Strategies and Analytics Fall - 2015 FCB 373, M/W 2:20 3:45 pm 3 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8/14 /15) Instructor: Dr. Tracy Cosenza University e - mail: tracy.cosenza@memphis.edu Office: F AB 210 Facebook: Tracy Cosenza (closed group: MKTG 4630 - 001 ) LinkedIn: Tracy Cosenza (search) Office Hours: 12:00 12:30 pm M/W and h appily by appointment. Catalog Description: Integrate social media techniques and trends into business strategy; recognize the advanced principles of social value chain and enterprise systems; formulate action plans to combine key social media networks and t ool s. Pre - Requisites / Co Requisites: M KTG 3010 and MKTG 3340 are required prior to enrolling in this course. Required / Recommended Reading: Harvard and Ivey Press social media cases purchased through publication website in addition to various r eadings as posted on course calendar via U of M ecourseware. Mashable: . mashable.com Social Media Examiner: Fast Company: Social Media Today Wired TechCrunch Clickz Location of Course Materials: This course will be managed through social media contact points specifically set up for this class and the MKTG 4630 class website at : https: // elearn.memphis.edu (course materials uploaded here). If you have any problems using the University site, please c all the 24 hour helpdesk at 678 - 8888. Course Overview and Objectives I. What we are studying This is the second level course that builds on the knowledge, skills, and applications acquired from the pre - requisite MKTG 3340, Principles of Social Media Comm erce. If you are unsure about the contents of the pre - requisite course, a copy of the text is on reserve in the library to refresh your knowledge base. 1. Social Media Communication is an integrated set of online content / earned media efforts of an organization to meet organizational objectives and goals in the overall business strategy. 2. When social media communication is combined with paid advertising, direct mail, website informat ion / selling, and public relations, the totality forms the integrated communication plan for the business. 3. When the integrated communication plan is combined with the marketing efforts of a business (mostly at the brand level), the whole notion evolve s into the integrated marketing communication plans and strategy for a business. 4. The integrated marketing communication strategy for a business guides it to reach both product / brand level objectives as well as organizational objectives. *** It is criti cal to understand (in all of our class efforts) that Social Media Communication Strategy does not occur as an independent development in a business. It must be considered along with all other processes that lead to achieving business objectives and goals. III. (defined for this course) Business objectives and goals are set by the strategic efforts of a business that want to grow and prosper. Thus, whether for profit or not for profit businesses, existence and growth to fulfill their mission in a changing business environment seems to drive the decisions of the business. big data, thus this class will focus on data - strat egy. For example: if my mission is to satisfy the nutritional needs of dogs and cats at a profit, I must set an overall profit determine if I have reached the profit goal in order to manage the business. All businesses use a common strategic set of goals, usually sales, revenue, market share, industry share, profit/loss, ROI, etc. Although much of the above is way too complicated and esot eric for the scope of this course, it is substantiated that social media efforts are contributing to reaching the above goals. Just ask Nike, for example. *** The efforts in this class will be directed toward the Social Media efforts that fit into the definition expounded above and the critical evaluation of the integrated strategies successes in helping to reach specified business objectives and goals. This tracking is monitored through digital dashboards. IV . Content Areas 1. Listening 2. Assessing 3. Engaging including content and content management 4. Integrating the business toward Social Media efforts / policy development 5. Implementing 6. Measuring 7. Evaluating (1 - 6) will be identified and investigated through class l ecture, current topics, and class discussions. Case discussions will be used to augment (1 - 6) and 1 - 4 (II) above. (7) will be investigated in analytics exercises and in - class analytical project. V. Learning Objectives By the end of this course, you will b e able to: Identify how social media strategies are developed and executed across various industries. Investigate the strategic implications of social media use through technical experience with professional sharing, listening, monitoring, and analytical t ools. Appraise the effectiveness of social media strategy and exhibit how to create actionable strategic tactics. Demonstrate how to integrate Social Media into the Integrated Marketing Plan Investigate the two types of social media analytics (self - perform ance and competitor analysis): define and identify indicators, report creation, and interpretation. landscape through a digital dashboard (Rival IQ - ht tps :// ) . Note: It is important to know in advance that this course is not a how - to course on existing or even emerging platforms. It will focus on the use of social media within the marketing plan, in particular, communication strategy. This course is highly interactive (hands - on) and collaborative and will focus on decision - m aking . Therefore, prepare Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the BBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the BBA program: Gradi ng Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points toward your final (overall) letter grade in this course. This section of the syllabus describes the assessed work you will be doing and how your overall (final) letter grades will be computed. Final Course Grade : This course is NOT +/ - and the scale is: Point Range Assigned Grade 900 - 1000 * A 800 - 899* B 700 - 799 * C 600 - 699 * D Below 600 * F * I do math. Your final grade must fall within a range to receive that grade. The end of the semester. Summary of Graded Activities : Your final grade will be determined on the f ollowing basis (using a denominator of 1000 pts) . There is no provision for late work. Each aspect of your grade will be detailed on the following pages: Deliverable Total Points Case Preparation ( 5 * 50 ) 25 0 Class Contribution 250 Analytics Assignments (6 * 50 ) 300 Industry Case / Infographic 2 00 Total 1000 Formal Assessed Activities : Case Preparation You will need to purchase the cases from the publishers website. They cost $3.95/each. I will send you the link via email. You will d evelop well thought - o ut answers to case questions (uploaded to ecourseware for each case) and also develop tangential arguments/observations that you find pertinent to our study of strategic best practices in social media marketing. Y our responses, refl ections must be typed and turned in on discussion day via DropBox . (5 @ 50 pts = 250 pts. No late turn in - no exceptions). Class Contribution This class will be hands - the assigned HBR cases and our collaborative efforts in our study of best practices social media use with various businesses/brands/products, various platforms, and current social media to ols . Your class participation and collaboration is not only appreci ated, it is expected. As reflected in the Grading Summary above, the point value for the contribution portion of your grade is substantial and I expect substantial contribution. It will be graded on a class - by - class basis. Warning: your presence is not enough. Your Contribution Assessment current with the assigned readings and personal, external knowledge acquisition of choice. Toward this objective, please come to class prepar ed to contribute! These are the standards for evaluating participation: 1. Relevance to the discussion 2. Move the discussion forward 3. Courtesy in discussion do you r espectfully consider ideas offered by classmates? 4. Is your viewpoint supported? Can you back up your viewpoint with points from the cases, data, research, theory, etc.? Analytics Assignments (Module - based) In class or online instruction, professor gu ided. Results and evaluation submitted typed via drop box. See Summary calendar for important dates. Competitive Landscape Analytics Project & Infographic You may choose the company for study during this course. Over the course of the semester, you should become immersed in their tactical application of their use social media use and that of their competitors through the analytics assignments. In addition to this portion, you should also research the company/bran d . You have taken 3340 so you are well versed on what you should be looking for. The case portion of this course should help you in strategic decision - making and assessment. In addition to the written portion, you will prepare an Infographic (a visual imag e such as a chart or diagram to words or numbers) in which you describe, synthesize all of the research/analytics you have conducted over the semester. It would be beneficial for you to work on your Infographic throughout the s emester as some charts lend themselves better for one type of content over another and you can build your document as you go along. All assignments are uploaded to ecourseware before the semester begins. You have ample time to seek clarification before t he due date; therefore , I will not answer questions within 24 hours of the deadline . I encourage you to use the FB group to solicit clarification from your classmates. All assignments will be submitted as a hardcopy, in class, on the day they are due. Course Policies E - mail All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) emai l account. You will receive of ficial course correspondence at this email account. If you do not check your .edu account consistently, bounce it to your preferred account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., Please DO NOT use th e email link in ec ourseware to correspond with me. It does not allow me to respond to you on my digital devices, thus, I never check it. Email me directly at the above noted account. I will make every effort to respond to your emails within two (2) busines s days. a closed Facebook group for this course and this is the place I will use most often to update you on pertinent information . I likewise encourage you to go there first to solicit any clarification you might need. Often ti mes, your cohorts will respond to you before I do. Also, please post things to the group that would broaden our knowledge base Class Attendance Attendance is both expected and considered necessary to adequate ly comp lete the course. You are responsible for all material covered in class or assigned, regardless of the reason for absence. Class participation ( see Contribution above) will be based on the assumption that you have read all assigned material prior to attending the session in which it is discussed. I t should go without saying, please be on time . For students receiving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attendance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. Cheating, Plagiarism, or Student Misconduct section of the Code of Student Conduct and Disciplinary Procedures. If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman page on academic integrity: . Please Note: u sing is considered cheating. Sh ould I have evidence that using Teaching notes WILL take steps as described on the Office of Student Conduct web site Also, your written work will be submitted to Turnitin.com or similar electronic detection method, for an evaluation of the originality of your ideas and proper use and attribution of sources. By taking this course you agree that all assignments may be included as a source document in assignment not submitted according to the procedures given by the instructor may not be accepted at all. Smartphones and other D igital Devices in Class The use of smartphones or any other devices in class is prohibited, unless specifically related to current classwork. Please silence or turn these off before class starts. If you are disrespectful with the use of your technology, I will be appropriately surly when embarrassing you. Interaction with Instructor I will be delighted to set up an appointment to meet with you , in my office, at a mutually convenient time. See me before or after class or e - mail me to make an appointment. Please note that , due to other commitments, I cannot Remember, if you are having anything about it. Students with Disabilities Under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act, qualified students with disabilities are entitled to equal access and op portunity to participate in all University programs, services, and activities. A qualified student with a disability is one who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities and who, with or without reasonable accommodation, meets the essential eligibility requirements for the programs, services and activities offered by the University. Please see me immediately if you have an accommodation for which I need to make arrangements. *** This syllabus is a tentative outline for this course. I will make reasonable effort to adhere to this schedule but you should know that I reserve the right to alter as circumstances may dictate. All changes will be announced in class and/or via the closed Facebook group. You are responsible for obtaining this information. Summary Schedule Social Communication Strategies and Analytics Fall 2015 MKTG 4630 001: M/W 2:20 - 3:45 pm Room 373 ___________________________________________________________________________________ Class Schedule This syllabus is a tentative outline for this course. I will make reasonable effort to adhere to this schedule but you shoul d know that I reserve the right to alter this calendar as circumstances may dictate. All changes will be announced in class and/or via the closed FaceBook group . You are responsible for obtaining this information. Date Topic 8/24 8/31 Introduction to Social Media Strategy; profit/non - profit, B2B/ B2C, ADV/PR/Customer service 9/2 9/ 14 analysis; example case; practice case analysis ( S ocial Strategy at Ni ke ) 9/ 16 - 9/21 Content Listening Listening lecture Case Oréal Identify social media strategy errors, tactical maneuvers 9/23 10 - 5 Content Assessing Disruptions lecture Case - Qantas ( 9/28 ) Social Media Analytics: Introduction - jobs, decision making with social media analytics (documents, PPT, video content, homework Q&A assessment) 10/ 7 10/21 Content Engaging Engag e ment lecture; Influencer lecture Case Ford Fiesta ( 10/12 ) FALL BREAK no class ( 10/14 ) Social Media Analytics: Social media indicators identification (FB, Twitter, Google+, Instagram, Pinterest) (documents, PPTs, video content, homework Q&A assessment) 10/26 10/28 Social Media Analytics: Types of analytics SPA (self - performance - analytics), calculate indicators growth rate, engagement total, average engagement, engagement rate, etc. (PPTs, videos, Excel knowledge, homework Q&A assessment) SPA analysis for industry landscape 11/2 Content - Integrating (Crisis Management) Case - Common Wealth Edison 11/4 Social Media Analytics : Chart creation (bar, pie, etc. using dashboards and Excel) (documents, PPTs, video content, excel module, homework Excel data) 11/9 11/11 Content Implementing / Measuring Case UnMe Data Driven Decision - making (D 3M) lecture 11/16 Social Media Analytics: Types of analytics Competitor Analysis Importance, types, tools, interpretation, report creation (documents, PPTs, video content, excel module, homework Excel data) Competitor analysis for industry landscape 11/18 Social Media Analytics: Types of analytics C ompetitor analysis for industry landscape 11/23 11/ 30 Content Integrating (Policy) Terms and Conditions May Apply Video Privacy reflection /discussion ( 11/25 ) THANKSGIVING BREAK no class 12/2 Competitive Landscape Analytics project due 11/9 Final Project presentation assessment - 1pm Additional GOOD Stuff: Center for Writing and Communication The Center for Writing and Communication (CWC) is a combined writing and speaking center that provides free, one - on - one and group tutorials to students working on writing and presentation assignments. Located on the first floor of McWherter Library, the CWC can assist you at any sta ge of the writing/presentation process including brainstorming ideas, revising initial drafts, and developing editing strategies. Whether you are working you while preserving the integrity of your work. The CWC is open Monday - Thursday, 9:00 - 5:00, and Friday, 9:00 - noon. Visit the CWC website ( ) for more information and to schedule an appointment. Walk - in appointments are also welcome. Any questions that you might have for your students can be directed to Will Duffy by emailing cwc@memphis.edu THE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT CENTER - The Complete Professional Program has an entire semester of events to help you get the job you want. Deadlines boosters. If you successfully complete four of the five required core modules, you will receive The Complete Professional Program Certificate, our program lapel pin, and a set of business cards. Employers value this certificate and know that you have inv Our Professional Development Program includes: Accounting Careers of Tomorrow Against All Odds Luncheon Business Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Futures in Finance Moving into Management Professionalism First! Technology Careers In Business (New for Fall 2014) Toastmasters Women in Action 4Cs Lecture Series Communication, Creativity, Critical Thinking, and Emotional Control (offered during regular classes) Know Good Do Good Thrive (offered during selected core classes) All FCBE students receive the last two components as part of our regular curriculum within Management, MIS, and Marketing core courses. To receive the Complete Pr ofessional Program Certificate, you must register for and complete 4 of the five core training modules below: Dining Etiquette Fogelman Fit Fogelman Serves Professionalism First! Toastmasters