#http://catalogquicksearch.memphis.edu/iii/cpro/app
Content Pro English English Home Slideshows Sign in University Libraries Digital Repository, University of Memphis The University Libraries Digital Repository contains digital versions of multiple types and formats of material from our unique holdings. These include select collection finding aids or guides, primary source documents, still images, and sound and motion recordings that formerly were only available to visitors in person or through telephone calls and emails. Almost all of these items are from our Preservation and Special Collections Department. Topics covered include, but are not limited to, local and regional history and culture in general, family and political life, the Civil War and other conflicts, Civil Rights, and African American community and culture. This is a growing collection and what is displayed here represents only a small fraction of our holdings. Please contact the Preservation and Special Collections Department if you have questions about topics not listed here. This site includes materials produced and distributed by previous incarnations of the University of Memphis (our name since 1994) and its component parts: Memphis State University, Memphis State College, and various permutations of West Tennessee State Normal/Teacher’s College for the school itself, and the Mississippi Valley Collection and John Willard Brister Library for the University Libraries. Displaying 1-24 of 136 View grid , list 1 2 3 4 5 6 Abell, Jack, collection Abell, Jack, collection The collection contains three scores, including two by Jack Abell, and a poster for the Fiddlers Convention held in Memphis in 1979. Aerial Images of the Memphis Area Aerial Images of the Memphis Area In this collection you can find aerial and ‘bird’s eye view’ photos of Memphis and its region throughout the 20th century. Many of the images show the Mississippi riverfront and the downtown area, but there are also photos documenting the development of the city to the north, the south, and especially to the east. Some suburbs are also represented. Allen, John H., photographs Allen, John H., photographs The collection consists of contact prints of photographs taken by John Hodges Allen of the grand parade celebrating the 34th United Confederate Veterans Association national reunion held in Memphis, Tennessee, on June 6, 1924. Amberson, William R., papers Amberson, William R., papers The collection contains copies of Dr. William R. Amberson’s correspondence concerning the Socialist Party and the Southern Tenant Farmers’ Union in Tennessee, Arkansas and Mississippi, and the Delta Cooperative Farms in Mississippi. American Jewish Archives selected documents American Jewish Archives selected documents The collection consists mainly of photocopies of material held by the American Jewish Archives, Cincinnati, used in the research activities of Dr. Berkley Kalin, University of Memphis. It includes articles, correspondence, histories and constitutions of congregations, speeches, personal records, and publications related to Southern Jews. Anderson, Robert S., collection Anderson, Robert S., collection The collection comprises correspondence, a diary and photographs documenting Robert S. Anderson’s service with the 81st Ohio Volunteer Regiment and the 59th U.S. Colored Infantry during the Civil War. Baxter, Charles H., reminiscence Baxter, Charles H., reminiscence The collection consists of a notebook which contains a handwritten account of the Civil War experiences of United States Navy officer Charles H. Baxter (1835-1917) in Mississippi and Alabama in 1863 and 1864. Beck, James M., papers Beck, James M., papers The collection is composed of documents concerning James M. Beck’s World War II service and his civilian work in post-war Germany, as well as materials related to the cotton business in Memphis. Bernhardt, Carl, diary Bernhardt, Carl, diary The collection contains photocopies of the diary—and its translation—of Private Carl W. Bernhardt, a German-American soldier in the Union army while serving at Mobile, Alabama, in 1865. Bethel, Dr. John P., papers Bethel, Dr. John P., papers The collection consists mainly of manuscript letters to and from Dr. John P. Bethell and his family of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. A few documents relate to Bethell’s Civil War service as an army surgeon. Binford, Lloyd, letters and ephemera Binford, Lloyd, letters and ephemera The collection contains carbon copies of two letters written by Lloyd Binford, Chairman of the Memphis Board of Censors. Blackburn, Norris C., papers Blackburn, Norris C., papers The collection consists of photographs and papers belonging to cotton warehouseman Norris C. Blackburn. The photographs include images taken by Blackburn of the measures taken to counter the great 1937 Mississippi flood around his company’s plant. The papers are mostly photocopies of correspondence and clippings related to Blackburn’s work in the cotton industry and his interest in sport. Boren ledger collection Boren ledger collection The collection contains five ledgers from the Key and McCallum country store in Madison County, Tennessee, used from 1900 to 1903. Caradine, Kathleen McMillan, papers Caradine, Kathleen McMillan, papers The collection contains materials collected by Kathleen Caradine on the history of West Tennessee and Memphis. It includes handwritten and typed notes, copies of letters and other documents, clippings, and unpublished papers. Cartoon collection Cartoon collection The collection contains an album of copies of World War I-era cartoons by a British illustrator using the pen name “Gem”, original illustrations by Joseph L. Parrish from the 1930s attacking E.H. Crump’s influence on Tennessee politics, and a cartoon by Draper Hill of the Memphis "Commercial Appeal". Chamberlin, W. Mallory, collection Chamberlin, W. Mallory, collection The collection comprises artillery training notes made by Mallory Chamberlin and memoranda related to field artillery units collected by him during World War I when he was in the Yale R.O.T.C. and then assigned to training and other military camps in the United States. Christian Brothers College examination papers Christian Brothers College examination papers The collection comprises a bound volume containing the examination papers for the 1889-1890 senior class of Christian Brothers College, Memphis, Tennessee. Chunn, William Neilson, papers Chunn, William Neilson, papers The collection contains mostly family correspondence of William N. Chunn (1835-1930) of Humboldt, Tennessee. Civil War miscellany Civil War miscellany The collection includes manuscript and copied letters, copy of a diary, United States War Department forms, printed General Orders from the United States Army Department of the Gulf, and prints. Clement, Frank G., photograph collection Clement, Frank G., photograph collection The collection consists of black and white photographs of Tennessee governor Frank G. Clements (1920-1969) with well-known entertainers, family members, and in the state legislature. In addition, there are images of three of his associates, streets and institutions named in his honor after his death, as well as his grave markers. The collection also includes eleven 35mm negative strips. Cloar, Carroll and Pat, collection Cloar, Carroll and Pat, collection The collection comprises correspondence, scrapbooks, diaries, newspaper and magazine clippings, photographs and photograph albums, notebooks, sketch pads and drawings documenting the life and work of Memphis, Tennessee, artist Carroll Cloar (1913-1993). Cocke, T. W., papers Cocke, T. W., papers The collection consists of cancelled checks, land deeds, an examination of title, and other business and real estate papers documenting the business activities of T.W. Cocke. Collins, Hiram Hill, papers Collins, Hiram Hill, papers The collection comprises mainly letters written by Hiram Hill Collins (1823-1915) to his wife and family at home in DeSoto County, Mississippi, while he served in the Confederate artillery in Georgia and Alabama during the last years of the Civil War. Colored Methodist Episcopal Church of America Little Rock Annual Conference minu... Colored Methodist Episcopal Church of America Little Rock Annual Conference minutes The collection consists primarily of a ledger containing the minutes of the annual Little Rock, Arkansas, district conference of the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church of America held in various locations in Arkansas from 1890 to 1934. There are also undated pastor statistical reports and a statistical report from the 1952 Annual Conference. 1 2 3 4 5 6 English Powered by &#169; Innovative Interfaces, Inc.