#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mktg/2015FMKTG4901M50.pdf
MKTG 4901 - M50 : Management of Marketing Strategies Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Instructor : Jeff Thieme ( ) , Associate Professor of Marketing Email: jthieme@memphis.edu Course web page: Office: 307 FCAB Office hours: See course web page Course Overview: This course is a c omprehensive application of th e study of marketing strategies, bus iness application case analyses, strategy development, and implementation . Prerequisites: MKTG 3012 and MKTG 4080. Required Materials : The following required readings can be purchased online: Framework for Marketing Strategy Formation Customer Centricity Creating Customer Value Consumer Behavior and the Buying Process Segmentation and Targeting Writing Great Marketing Plans Links to other readings and materials will be made available on the course web site. Teaching Philosophy : My responsibility as a teacher is to construct the mix of delivery and assessment tools that provides students the best opportunity to achieve course objectives. Course Objectives : T his co urse focuses on strategic marketing processes: performing a strategic analysis, c reat ing and presenting a marketing plan, and justifying your conclusions . Fogelman College Learning Outcomes: Course Roadmap: Tasks : This course focuses on critical thinking and higher level learning objectives which are linked directly to course objectives. We will cover various readings in the first part of the course second part of the course you will create a brief opportunity analysis . You will then create a written marketing plan and a marketing plan presentation . Details on the format and content of the each of these tasks will be provided in on the course web site. Grading: Task : Value: Scale: Discussions 10% A 90 - 100 Exam #1 15% B 80 - 89 Exam #2 15 % C 70 - 79 Opportunity analysis 20% D 60 - 69 Marketing plan presentation 20% F 0 - 59 Marketing plan document 20% 100% Peer Evaluations : After your team submits the written document and gives the presentation for your marketing plan, t he members of your team will evaluate your contribution to the output by submitting peer evaluations for all graded team assignments. Team members who do n ot pull their own weight will receive lower scores in team - related assignments. Course Policies : It is your responsibility to monitor the course web site to receive any assignments , due dates, and/or announcements. It is expected that you will review and complete all assigned materials in a timely manner . The Educational Support Program at the University of Memphis offers a comprehensive program to help those with disabilities. You must foll ow their procedures to benefit from this assistance. If you have any disabilities that require special accommodations, please contact me as soon as possible to ensure that you are provided the assistance you need. Academic dishonesty will not be tolerat ed in this course. If you engage in activities that You are responsible for reviewing the policies regarding academic dishonesty . If you have any questions regarding academic dishonesty throughout the course, please ask me for clarification prior to engaging in the questionable activity. Readings, Discussions, and Exams Opportunity analysis Marketing plan Document Presentation Student Services: Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about: Students with Disabilities , Tutoring and other Academic Assistance , Advising Services for Fogelman Students , and Technical Assistance . Tentative S chedule: While we will try to follow this schedule , deviations are possible. Any changes will be announced on the course web site . It is your responsibility to check the course web site regularly to receive these announcements. Date Activity Week of 8/23 S / Sustainability and Marketing Week of 8/30 Framework for Marketing Strategy Formation Week of 9/6 Customer Centricity / Creating Customer Value 9/14 Exam #1 9/1 5 9/19 Consumer Behavior and the Buying Process Week of 9/2 0 Segmentation and Targeting / Writing Great Marketing Plans 9/28 Exam #2 9/ 29 Opportunity Analysis Assignment Week of 10/4 Opportunity Analysis Week of 10/11 Opportunity Analysis Week of 10/18 Opportunity Analysis Week of 10/25 Opportunity Analysis/Marketing Plan Week of 11/1 Marketing Plan Week of 11/8 Marketing Plan Week of 11/15 Marketing Plan Week of 11/22 Marketing Plan 12/2 Marketing Plan Presentation and Document