#http://www.memphis.edu/herff/current/honorsprograms.php
Herff Honors Programs - Herff Home - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Herff College of Engineering Future Students Current Students Alumni Research Departments About Current Students Undergraduate Graduate Home Herff Home Current Students Herff Honors Programs Honors Programs Honors programs are offered by the respective departments in Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering. Those who are eligible for and complete the requirements of the honors program will be recognized at the commencement ceremony and have their degree conferred "With Honors" in the appropriate discipline. Specific details for these programs are listed in the undergraduate catalog, and are summarized below. Biomedical Engineering Honors Program: The Biomedical Engineering Honors Program is for highly motivated and high achieving students and provides special opportunities to advance the career and professional development of the student. The program aims to develop student talents, interests, and abilities within a curriculum and to encourage independence and creativity. Students are eligible for the honors program in biomedical engineering if they have and maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.4 with at least junior standing and have received approval from the departmental honors committee. The honors program in biomedical engineering requires a minimum of 10 hours of honors courses in upper division biomedical engineering courses including both BIOM 4800 BME Honors seminar and completion of an honors thesis (BIOM 4999). Those students who complete the program and the regular B.S.B.E. requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred "With Honors in Biomedical Engineering." Honors designation will also appear on student's diploma and academic transcript. Civil Engineering Honors Program : Students are eligible for the honors program in Civil Engineering if they have an minimum overall GPA of 3.25 with a junior or senior standing or have received approval of the departmental honors committee. The honors program in civil engineering requires 12 hours of upper division honors courses. Those students who complete the program and the regular B.S.C.E. requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred "With Honors in Civil Engineering." Moreover, the student's diploma and record at the University of Memphis will reflect this accomplishment. Details concerning this program and honors course offerings are available in the Department of Civil Engineering. Computer Engineering Honors Program : Students are eligible for the honors program in computer engineering if they have and maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.4 with at least junior standing and have received approval of the departmental honors committee. The honors program in computer engineering requires a minimum of 8 hours of honors courses in computer engineering and must include honors sections of EECE 4279 and EECE 4280 [W], along with the completion of an honors thesis. (EECE 4999). Those students who complete the program and the regular B.S.C.P . requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred "With Honors in Computer Engineering." Moreover, the student's diploma and record at the University of Memphis will reflect this accomplishment. Details concerning this program and honors course offerings are available in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Electrical Engineering Honors Program : Students are eligible for the honors program in electrical engineering if they have and maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.4 with at least junior standing and have received approval of the departmental honors committee. The honors program in electrical engineering requires a minimum of 8 hours of honors courses in electrical engineering and must include honors sections of EECE 4279 and EECE 4280 [W], along with the completion of an honors thesis. (EECE 4999). Those students who complete the program and the regular B.S.E.E. requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred "With Honors in Electrical Engineering." Moreover, the student's diploma and record at the University of Memphis will reflect this accomplishment. Details concerning this program and honors course offerings are available in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Mechanical Engineering Honors Program : Incoming freshmen who score a minimum of 26 on the ACT or its equivalent are invited to participate. Transfer students or students previously enrolled at the University of Memphis are eligible for the program if they have an overall grade point average of 3.00 and a grade point average of 3.25 for course work within the Herff College of Engineering. The departmental honors committee admits eligible students to the program upon approval of Intent to Pursue Honors application. Students with academic records that fall short of these requirements may apply for provisional acceptance. Participants must maintain a minimum overall grade point average of 3.00 and a minimum grade point average of 3.25 for course work within the college to continue in the program. The departmental honors committee may grant participants failing to meet this requirement a one semester probationary period before they are dismissed from the program. To qualify for "With Honors in Mechanical Engineering", a student must successfully complete a minimum of 18 semester hours from the following: 1) MECH 4395 and MECH 4396, 2) 9 credits of upper division mechanical engineering honors courses, and 3) 3 credits of MECH 1395, MECH 2395, or MECH 3395. A minimum grade of "B" is required in each honors course for it to count toward fulfilling the honors course requirement, but regular credit for the course will be earned if the grade is lower than a "B". A participant must select a major advisor during the first semester senior year and enroll in MECH 4395. Successful completion of this course requires acceptance of a thesis proposal by the departmental honors committee. During the second semester of the senior year a participant must enroll in MECH 4396. Successful completion of this course requires acceptance of a thesis by the departmental honors committee. Students successfully completing the prescribed course work will have earned the designation of "With Honors in Mechanical Engineering." This designation will be recognized at the commencement ceremony and it will appear on the transcript and diploma. Honors Assembly Honors Assembly is an annual university event in which outstanding students from across the university are recognized for their accomplishments. Awards in the Herff College of Engineering are listed below. Click here for 2010 Engineering Honoree list. Department of Biomedical Engineering Outstanding Senior Award Presented annually to the outstanding senior in biomedical engineering based upon scholarship, leadership and service. Department of Civil Engineering Dr. Fred H. Kellog Award Presented annually to the student graduating in that academic year, who, in the opinion of the faculty, is most likely to be an outstanding professional engineer. In selecting the recipient, the faculty will consider a combination of academic performance, demonstrated design capability, and those qualities of leadership, personality and character that will contribute to the successful practice of Civil Engineering. Dr. Thomas S. Fry Award Presented to the graduating student who has demonstrated academic achievement with a minimum of the last 60 credit hours of course work at The University of Memphis, and who has earned the highest GPA. Dr. T. S. Wu Award Given annually by the Civil Engineering Department to the senior who exemplifies the engineering design qualities and characteristics which were exemplified by Dr. T.S. Wu, Professor Emeritus, of the Civil Engineering Department. Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Outstanding Senior Award Presented annually to the outstanding senior in electrical and computer engineering based upon scholarship, leadership and service. Department of Engineering Technology Outstanding Senior Award Presented annually to the outstanding senior in engineering technology based upon scholarship, leadership and service. Department of Mechanical Engineering Outstanding Senior Award Presented annually to the outstanding senior in mechanical engineering based upon scholarship, leadership and service. College-Wide Awards Dean's Award Presented annually to the graduating student who has complied the highest academic achievement in the Herff College of Engineering. Current Students Undergraduate Graduate Visit Herff See what Herff has to offer YOU! Give to Herff Shape the future of engineering today! Herff Faculty &amp; Staff Herff Faculty &amp; Staff E-Day E-Day Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .