#http://www.memphis.edu/cas/community.php
Community Outreach - CAS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Arts &amp; Sciences About Departments Research Scholarships Students Resources News Home CAS Community Outreach Community Involvement CH Nash Museum at Chucalissa This summer we are doing our 5th summer project of community engagement and oral history into Southwest Memphis. I have one graduate student who will be launching their practicum on institutionalizing the relationship with Freedom Prep Charter school students at Chucalissa, updating our AF-AM cult heritage exhibit with those students. I have another grad student who will be launching her practicum work on developing programs at the museum for children with autism. Visit Website Engaged Scholarship in Anthropology Research The Department of Anthropology in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences is a recognized campus and community leader in engaged scholarship. Examples include: Anthropology's mission expressly promotes engaged scholarship. Currently, our faculty collaborates with more than 50 organizations on projects that empower campus and public partners to share an equitable role in research. Anthropology's Tenure and Promotion Guidelines recognize and reward engaged scholarship, and tenure track hires are expected to advance engaged research. The MA in Applied Anthropology focuses on the application of engaged scholarship. The practicum requirement involves collaboration with agencies on engaged research to advance community development and/or community health. The Department of Anthropology Community Advisory Board is composed of community leaders who provide direction on public needs and future trends. Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Award: Presented at the annual Honors Assembly to Anthropology students for meritorious public engagement. The Anthropology Student Club features engaged community service activities. Two of our faculty have won the University's Award for Engaged Scholarship. Two of our faculty recently won CAS Learn-And-Serve Awards for service learning. Two of our faculty recently Co-Chaired the Engaged Scholarship Committee. Most of our faculty serves on the advisory boards of community organizations and subcommittees (e.g. United Housing, United Way of the Mid-South, MIFA, Latino Memphis, South Memphis Alliance, Memphis Teen Vision, Shelby County Health Department, Memphis March of Dimes). Dozens of community, state, and federal organizations benefit from engaged collaborations with Anthropology faculty. Visit the Department of Anthropology website for more information about Engaged Scholarship in Anthropology Research. Strengthening Communities Initiative, Engaged Scholarship, and SUAPP The School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy (SUAPP) provides valuable services to cities and enable the institution and the urban citizens to improve their core knowledge and expertise leading to future development of theories and discoveries that advance our nation. Since 1999, the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy (SUAPP) at the University of Memphis has produced important discoveries through collaboration with institutions, agencies, and organizations and by defining the questions and best practices of research methodologies and data analysis. Engaged scholarship has become the hallmark of SUAPP’s work. For more information on the Strengthening Communities Initiative, Engaged Scholarship, and the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy, visit the SUAPP website . Apply now for an Undergraduate Degree in the College of Arts &amp; Sciences Pursue your dream of having a degree, broaden your career choices and gain the confidence you need to succeed! The College offers Master's and Doctoral Degrees Are you interested in a new profession? Would you like to enhance the knowledge and experience you already possess? Community Engagement We are committed to teaching and serving the Memphis and Mid-South community through our programs and events. Contact Us Dean's Office Contacts, Advising, Department Chairs... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .