#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/pdfs/gso_2015.pdf
The Graduate School 2015 Graduate Student Orientation Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal Dean of the Graduate School James Kierulff Interim Director of Graduate Student Services Modernizes operations Analyzes Graduate processes, policies and procedures Implements new processes, policies and procedures Manages GA eContracts and systems Assists with the strategic side of enrollments and admissions Manages student -related inquiries from colleges Provides college level training/support for policies/ procedures. Manages retroactive enrollment and withdrawals Lakesha Herring Interim Coordinator of Graduate Programs Maintains Graduate Faculty Status Database Compiles data for/prepares comprehensive reports Performs business/administrative related tasks in operational support Coordinates/manages scholarships/ fellowships (totaling $400,000 yearly) Coordinates/schedules meetings, rooms, conferences, surveys (NSF and Peterson™s), Honors Assembly for the Graduate School Michelle Stout Graduation Analyst Processes transfer credit Proofs for style and format over 200 theses and 100 dissertations annually Manages/processes intent to graduate, candidacy, and comprehensive examination forms (over 600/semester) Mary Kyle Coordinator of Graduate Publications and Recruitment Recording secretary for the University Council of Graduate Studies Marketing Coordinator Website and Graduate Catalog editor Attends recruitment events representing the Graduate School Loads all curricular requests and submits proposals to the Tennessee Board of Regents Kaitlin Duckett President of the Graduate Student Association Presides over the Graduate Student Association (GSA) Serves as a voting member on the University Council of Graduate Studies Develops Graduate Student Orientation in collaboration with Enrollment Services Coordinates the Student Research Forum, in collaboration with the Honors Program Lemmie Griggs Supervisor of Graduate Admissions Serves as enrollment manager for the Graduate School Supervises the Graduate Admissions Office and staff Develops and implements strategic graduate student recruitment plans Collaborates with the Graduate School and various graduate programs to create a fulfilling graduate school experience for our students. Graduate Admissions Counselors Cynthia Deborah Winnella Regina Hightower Holder Jones Rastall Graduate Education Week in Tennessee The Tennessee Conference of Graduate Studies sponsors this annual event in Nashville, Tennessee. It allows graduate students to present their research to legislators at the Capitol Building. The Graduate School hosts a luncheon for the Shelby County Delegation of legislators, where our student is able to present their research in a more intimate setting. The Annual Student Research Forum The Student Research Forum is free and open to all. It features over 100 poster presentations about graduate and undergraduate student research. The Graduate School Important policies TIME LIMITATIONS DOCTORAL DEGREES: 12 years only 10 years for some, see the Graduate Catalog for more information MASTER™S DEGREES: 6 years 8 years for programs that require 36 hours or more GRADE POINT AVERAGE Graduate students must maintain a 3.0 GPA ("B "). Grades of "D" and "F" will not apply toward any graduate degree, but will be computed in the GPA. No more than 7 hours of "C -," "C" or "C+" will be applied towards meeting degree requirements. REPETITION OF COURSES May repeat a course to earn a higher grade only if the earned grade was a "U" or lower than a "B" (3.0 ). No course may be repeated more than once to improve the grade. WITHDRAWAL FROM GRADUATE SCHOOL Only when circumstances beyond the student™s control make it impossible to complete the semester. Late withdrawals must be approved by the Director of Graduate Studies in the student's college and submitted to the Graduate School . A leave of absence can be granted dependent upon the student™s circumstances Approvals and documentation required. CREDIT BY EXAM In cases where the student has knowledge, but has not taken the appropriate course, the academic units, with approval from the Dean of the Graduate School or designee, may offer graduate courses for credit by examination. Total credit -by-examination applied to a student's degree program may not exceed nine (9) semester hours. The necessary form is available on the Graduate School web site ( DEADLINES - REGISTRAR 08.24.15 First day of fall classes 12.02.15 Last day of fall classes 12.03.15 Study day 12.04.15 Œ 12.10.15 Exams 01.19.16 First day of spring classes 04.27.16 Last day of spring classes 04.28.16 Study day 04.29.16 Œ 05.05.16 Exams DEADLINES - BURSAR FALL 2015 FEE PAYMENT DEADLINES Students who register for any FALL PART -OF-TERM (POT ) during the following dates: Fee payment deadline to avoid the assessment of $100 Late Payment Fee All registered courses will be DELETED if Not Paid In Full or Signed Up/Paid on the INSTALLMENT PAYMENT PLAN (IPP) by the FEE PAYMENT DEADLINE : April 6 - August 21, 2015 N/A August 21, 2015 by 4:30 p.m. All Courses Deleted NOTE: No reinstatement period will apply. Students who wish to re-register for courses with remaining seat availability may do so beginning at 8:00 a.m. on August 22, 2015. *August 22 Œ August 28, 2015 (Students who register for any 2nd POT courses on August 28, fees will be due on August 28 .) August 27, 2015 by 5:30 p.m. August 28, 2015 by 4:30 p.m. All Courses Deleted NOTE: Any student who wish to re -register for any 2nd POT courses with remaining seat availability may do so beginning at 8:00 a.m. on August 29, 201 For the latest Graduate School news, follow us online! : @memphisgraduate : The Graduate Student Association All enrolled graduate students are automatically members of the Graduate Student Association (GSA). All graduate students are encouraged to participate in GSA discussions and activities, and may serve on GSA committees and working groups . Please fill out the interest card in your folder if you would like to actively participate in the GSA. Thank you for coming! Enjoy your lunch!