#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mktg/2015FMKTG7140001.pdf
1 THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS Fogelman College of Business & Economics MKTG7140 Global Marketing Strategy Spring 2015 Instructor: Dr. George D. Deitz, Ph.D. Office: Room 342 Fogelman Admin Building or Room 368 Fogelman Classroom Building (cNRL Lab) Phone: 901 - 678 - 2098 (Office); 901 - 825 - 7610 (Personal Cell) Email: gdeitz@memphis.edu Office Hours: Monday and Tuesday (1:00 - 4:00) or by appointment. REQUIRED COURSE MATERIALS Book: An excellent book by two marketing strategy thought leaders we will digest a few chapters at a time over the course of the semester. Strategy from the Outside - In: Profiting from Customer Value by George S. Day and Christine Moorman. Amazon (~$8 - 20 for print version, e - version is also fine): WSJ Subscription: It is important that professional business students be aware of major developments that impact the world of business. I want you all thinking about marketing outside of the classroom. How do major world events influence marketing strategy making and implementation? How does marketing impact overall firm performance? To help better understand such questions, students are required to pur chase a semester subscription to the Wall Street Journal (I think you will find this a tremendous bargain!) Wall Street Journal 15 Week Subscription ($15): Simulation: Students will participate as members of a team in a series of projects centered on their participation in Marketplace Advanced simulation game. Further instructions for purchasing a student license ($50) and accessing the game will be provided on the course site. For a preview of the game, please click the link below: Marketplace Advanced Strategic Marketing Simulation 2 Additional readings, podcasts, cases, and videos will be assigned for most weeks and will be made available through the course site, via the UofM library, or linked to the Internet. DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES The aim of this course is to provide students an understanding of the basic concepts that underlie strategic marketing management. The emphasis is upon application of these ideas to real worl d settings. Upon the conclusion, the successful student will: Better understand how marketing influences customer perceptions of value and how these perceptions ultimately dictate firm success. Gain experience in writing a comprehensive marketing plan. Gain experience making both strategic and tactical marketing management decisions. Gain experience in making executive presentations. Enhance analytical and problem solving skills. Improve critical thinking capabilities. COURSE CONDUCT AND EXPECTATIONS Your involvement in the class is critical and the success of the course is dependent on your commitment to the "4 Ps" of student involvement. These are: 1. Preparation : If you do not read the assigned material and engage in thoughtful preparation on a timely basis, you cannot have a meaningful learning experience in this course. 2. Presence: If you are not present you cannot learn and, more importantly, cannot add your unique thoughts and insight to the class discussion. You are expected to attend class regularly and take all exams. Normally, there will be no makeup for missed exams. In the case of a documented legitimate excuse, you will be given a makeup test during the final exam week or at an earlier date. The course schedule is subject to change and it is your responsibility to stay informed of any changes in the course calendar, assignments, and deadlines. All changes will be announced in class. 3. Promptness : Students who enter the classroom late disrupt the discussion and any ot her activity underway, slowing down the learning process. Therefore, please be prompt. 4. Participation : Your learning experience is best facilitated by regular participation. You have the responsibility to contribute to the learning process by sharing your knowledge, insight, judgment and experiences with the class. 3 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Your performance will be evaluated on the basis of tests, assignments and a final project. Questions for tests may be drawn from the text, assigned outside readings, class lecture and discussion materials. The following grading system will be used: Item Percentage Ind/Grp Grade Final Exam 200 Individual Simulation Obj. Perf. 2 00 Group Marketing Plan (Simulation) 1 00 Group Case Study Paper 100 Group Case Study Presentation 50 Group Critical Thinking Memos 50 Individual Quiz/Homework Grade 1 00 Individual Individual Project 100 Individual Class Citizenship 1 0 0 Individual Total 1000 *ASSIGNMENTS/FINAL PROJECT, TEAMWORK AND PEER EVALUATION REPORTS: Teamwork is an integral part of the course. Teams of 3 - 5 individuals will be formed no later than the second week of the semester. Each team should be diverse enough to reflect the composition of the class in terms of ethnic background and gender . Once teams are established, they will remain intact at the discretion of the instructor. A majority of the members of a team may request to dismiss a team member, but no one can resign from the team. A student who is dismissed from a team will be responsible for the rest of the assignments as an individual, and will lose 25% of his/her scores that were earned while working as part of the team. Each team member will evaluate his/her teammates at the end of the semester via an online evaluation through a survey link provided by the instructor. These peer evaluations are very important and remain confidential. Further, each evaluator will be graded in terms of the completeness and thoroughness of the peer evaluations he/she submitted as well as the evaluations of their work provided by other team members. Appropriate accommodations will be provided to students with disabilities who present a memo from Student Disability Services (SDS). To maximize learning, several Guidelines for Professional Conduct apply in this class. In particular, cheating, plagiarism, and collusion will not be tolerated. (Refer to the University of Memphis Student Handbook for more information). Academic misconduct and classroom misconduct can result in serious penalties, including receipt of a failing grade in the class, suspension, and expulsion from the University.