#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/technology_mgmt.php
Technology Management Services - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Technology Management Services Technology Management Services Technology Management Services is designed for experienced technicians who wish to enhance their technical expertise while at the same time increasing their skills in management, organizational relations, and communication; their knowledge of contexts within which the management of technology fits; their understanding of workplace issues that can affect productivity; and their ability to manage diversity in the workforce. Program Summary A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. B. Coordinated Study (54 Hours) Technology Concentration (24 hours, 12 hours must be upper-division) This includes courses taken from such departments as Engineering, Engineering Technology, Manufacturing Engineering, Architecture, Mathematics, Construction Technology, Computer Science, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, and approved Earth Sciences courses. It is assumed that students will take all technology concentration courses from one area. Students wishing to take a combination of classes from the above areas need permission of the University College Dean. A limited number of courses from Management Information Systems (MIS/SCMS) is allowed but can not make up the entire content of the technology concentration. Management Services (30 hours) Administration and Supervision (3 hours, Take one course from the following group) MGMT 3110 Organization and Management TECH 4381 Principles of Supervision PADM 3601 Public Administration Organizational Systems (3 hours, Take one course from the following group) MGMT 3215 Management of Human Resources MGMT 4420 Organizational Behavior in Business PADM 4226 Introduction to Nonprofit Organizations PSYC 3508 Industrial &amp; Organizational Psychology Marketing and Public Relations (3 hours, Take one course from the following group) MKTG 3010 Principles of Marketing JOUR 3400 Public Relations Administrative Skills (3 hours, Take one course from the following group) ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting I MIS 2749 Foundation/Information Systems MIS 2770 Information Technical Infrastructure Statistical &amp; Research Methods (3 hours, Take one course from the following group) SOCI 3311 Social Statistics EDPR 4541 Fundamentals of Applied Statistical Methods SCMS 3711 Analytical Tools for Business Decisions MATH 1601 Statistical Reasoning MATH 4611 Introduction to Applied Statistics Team and Organizational Relations (3 hours, Take one course from the following group) COMM 4011 Communications in Organizations COMM 4342 Small Group Communication COMM 4373 Interracial Communication COMM 4375 Intercultural Communication COUN 4621 Human Interactions COUN 4781 Strategies for Crisis Intervention Written Communication (3 hours, Take one course from the following group) ENGL 3601 Technical and Professional Writing ENGL 3602 Writing and Editing in the Professions ENGL 3603 Engineering Communications ENGL 3604 Persuasive Writing MGMT 3510 Business Communications Social &amp; Cultural Context (3 hours, Take one course from the following group) ANTH 4412 Neighborhood Development and Poverty ANTH 3511 Culture, Kin and Family CJUS 4180 Corporate and White Collar Crime CJUS 4235 Private and Industrial Security COMM 3003 Television and Culture SLS 3105 Sport and Leisure as Popular Culture SOCI 3422 Racial and Ethnic Minorities SOCI 3432 Sociology of Gender SOCI 3831 Marriage and Family SOCI 4631 Cities in Change Political &amp; Economic Context (3 hours, Take one course from the following group ACCT 3130 Legal/Political/Social Environment of Business ECON 3411 Economics of Social Issues ECON 4130 Government Regulation of Business HIST 4824 Business History POLS 4510 Politics in a Global Economy ESCI 3430 Economic Geography Technology &amp; Culture (3 hours, Take one course from the following group) COMM 4014 Computer Mediated Communication HIST 3035 Technology and Culture in American History PHIL 3512 Science, Technology and Human Values PHIL 3514 Biomedical Ethics C . Thematic Studies (6 hours) D. Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project completed during the final semester) E. Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .