#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/services/awards_cas.php
The college of Arts and Sciences Awards - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Services to Students The college of Arts and Sciences Awards The College of Arts and Sciences Awards THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES DEAN’S AWARD FOR OUTSTANDING UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT is presented to a student who has displayed outstanding academic achievement, as well as strong leadership, character, scholarship, and contribution to department and campus activities. THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY presents the Outstanding Anthropology Senior Award to the student with the most outstanding record of academic achievement in the major. The department also presents the Outstanding Anthropology Student Service Awards to the graduating student with the most outstanding record of contributions to service and engaged outreach. THE BIOLOGY FACULTY AWARD is presented to the undergraduate student who makes the most significant contribution to the department. THE DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY presents the Outstanding General Chemistry Student award to the student in Principles of Chemistry who has demonstrated outstanding leadership ability and scholastic achievement. THE DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE annually presents the Mu Sigma Chi Professional Criminal Justice Award to the student of Criminal Justice deemed outstanding in professional activities. THE DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH offers several awards: a. The Distinguished Scholarship Award presented each year to the English major whose work demonstrates an unusually high order of academic excellence. b. Honors Thesis Award presented in recognition of the outstanding honors thesis by a student in the English Honors Program. c. Giem and Collins Writing Contest presented for excellence in student writing produced in freshman and sophomore English courses. THE DEPARTMENT OF EARTH SCIENCES annually presents the Outstanding Senior Award to a senior in Geology exhibiting scholarship, leadership and service. The department also presents each year the Paul H. Sisco Award to the outstanding senior Geography major. THE DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES presents the Outstanding Foreign Language Student of the Year award to a major who has consistently excelled in the discipline. FRENCH GOVERNMENT ASSISTANTSHIPS: The French Government through the French Embassy in The United States, on the recommendation of the French Section of the Department of Foreign Languages, each year awards one or more assistantships in France for the teaching of English in secondary schools. THE DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY annually presents the Tennessee Historical Commission Award to that senior student of History judged by the faculty to be the outstanding History major. The department also presents an award for the outstanding paper presented by an undergraduate. THE INTERNATIONAL STUDIES PROGRAM Outstanding Senior Award is presented to the student with the most outstanding record of academic achievement in the major. THE DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES annually presents the R. P. Clark Memorial Award to an outstanding junior. THE DEPARTMENT OF PHILOSOPHY OUTSTANDING STUDENT AWARD is presented to a student in Philosophy chosen on the basis of high scholastic achievement, papers written, and performance in senior honors seminars. THE DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS each year presents the Outstanding Student Award to the most distinguished senior Physics major. THE DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL SCIENCE presents the Outstanding Student Award each year to the graduating senior majoring in Political Science who has compiled the best record of academic achievement in the discipline. Also The John W. Burgess Award is presented for meritorious achievement in Political Science, and the Pre-Law Award is presented to the political science major whose pre-law studies demonstrate high promise for a distinguished legal career. THE DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHOLOGY presents annually The Dr. Milton C. Addington Award for Excellence in Psychology to the senior Psychology major exhibiting the most individuality, interest, initiative, integrity, creative ability and originality. THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY annually presents The Jerry Michel Outstanding Student Award to the senior student judged to be the outstanding Sociology major. ALPHA EPSILON DELTA , the health pre-professional honor society, annually presents the Student of the Year Award to the member who has demonstrated outstanding leadership, loyalty, and responsibility. THE CHl BETA PHI SCIENCE AWARDS are presented to students who have attained the highest academic average during their four years of study in each of the following disciplines: Biology, Chemistry, Geology, Mathematical Sciences, Physics, and Psychology. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .