#http://iprint.memphis.edu/Print/
iPrint::How To Print Home How To Print Support My Account Add Print Funds How To Print Select your operating system to begin printing your documents Method 1: Web Print Web Print allows you to quickly print your documents without the need of installing any software or drivers on your device. To use Web Print: Step 1 - From the iPrint website, click the My Account link Step 2 - Click the Web Print Link and then click Submit a Job Step 3 - Complete the Web Print wizard by specifying the printer, number of copies and selecting the document you wish to print Supported file types: Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Excel (2010+) and PDF Method 2: Traditional Installation Windows (XP/Vista/7/8) and Mac OS (10.6+) To use iPrint on Windows and Mac: Download and install the PaperCut Client Software. This will install the PaperCut client and the iPrint printer on your computer. Once installed the iPrint printer will function like a normal printer. When you print to the iPrint Printer you will be prompted to enter your University username and password. After you have entered your username and password you will then be asked to confirm the print job. To print to an iPrint printer the PaperCut client must be running or your job will not be submitted. Once you have confirmed your print job it will be held in a queue for 15 minutes for you to release at the printer of your choice. To release your print job, click on the My Account link to login to the iPrint website and release your job. Mac users that experience issues with the PaperCut client will need to download and install the latest version of Java from Apple that can be found here Download for Windows Download for Mac Installation Instructions: Windows &amp; Mac Linux* To use iPrint on Linux: Download the PaperCut Client Software. Once downloaded, follow the included instructions to begin using iPrint on your Linux device. When you print to the iPrint Printer you will be prompted to enter your University username and password. After you have entered your username and password you will then be asked to confirm the print job. To print to an iPrint printer the PaperCut client must be running or your job will not be submitted. Once you have confirmed your print job it will be held in a queue for 15 minutes for you to release at the printer of your choice. To release your print job, click on the My Account link to login to the iPrint website and release your job. *limited suppport provided for Linux client Download for Linux Installation Instructions: Linux umTech AskTom Important Notice Memphis, TN 38152