#http://www.memphis.edu/law/faculty-staff/mamlyuk.php
Boris Mamlyuk - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Home School of Law Faculty Boris Mamlyuk Boris Mamlyuk Assistant Professor of Law Phone (901) 678-2202 Email bmamlyuk@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-0753 Office Law School, Office 362 Office Hours CV SSRN About Professor Mamlyuk Boris Mamlyuk joined the Memphis law faculty in 2011. He teaches first year Contracts, Public International Law, International Business Transactions, and leads the Comparative Law seminar. Professor Mamlyuk earned his J.D. from the University of California (Hastings) in 2005. After admission to the bar, Professor Mamlyuk practiced in the Irvine, CA office of Watt, Tieder, Hoffar &amp; Fitzgerald, representing clients in complex commercial litigation. In 2007, Mamlyuk returned to academia to pursue doctoral work at the CLEI Centre, a research center founded by Cornell Law School and the University of Turin, Faculty of Law. During the course of his doctoral studies, Mamlyuk held a number of joint appointments, including as visiting scholar at Columbia University's Harriman Institute for Russian, Eurasian and Eastern European Studies, and as a visiting scholar at Cornell Law School. In 2008-09, Prof. Mamlyuk served as a Fulbright Fellow, studying Russian law and transition at the Institute of State and Law in Moscow. While in Russia, Mamlyuk taught courses on Civil Society and Russian Law and Politics at Moscow's Higher School of Economics. Education Ph.D., University of Torino, Faculty of Law, 2011; J.D., University of California (Hastings), 2005; B.A., California State University (Fullerton), 2002. Admitted California Experience 2011-present, Assistant Professor of Law; 2010-2011, Visiting Assistant Professor of Law, Ohio Northern University; 2009-2010, Visiting Scholar, Cornell Law School; 2005-2007, Associate, Watt, Tieder, Hoffar &amp; Fitzgerald, LLP. Teaching Interests Contracts, Commercial Law, International and Comparative Law Publications Mamlyuk's research interests include international legal theory, law and development, and issues of legal transition and Rule of Law reforms in developing and post-socialist states. His current research project focuses on Russia's attempts to harmonize domestic legal structures in light of WTO accession. Mamlyuk has delivered numerous conference presentations on these topics in more than five countries. His work has been selected for presentation at the Yale Comparative Law Works-in-Progress Workshop and he has served as a participant at the annual Institute for Global Law and Policy workshop, hosted by Harvard Law School. Since 2013, Prof. Mamlyuk also serves on the advisory board of CleanApp, a global open-source, wiki-based civic complaint reporting application. Representative Publications: Russian International Law and Indeterminacy: Cold War and Post-Soviet Dynamics, in The Legal Dimension in Cold War Interactions: Some Notes from the Field (William Simons, Tatiana Borisova, eds., M. Nijhoff 2012). Comparative International Law, 36 Brooklyn J. Int'l L. 385 (2011) (with Ugo Mattei). Russia &amp; Legal Harmonization: an Historical Inquiry into IP Reform as Global Convergence and Resistance, 10 Wash. U. Global Stud. L. Rev. 535 (2011). "Capitalism, Communism ... And Colonialism? A Critical Colonial Reading of 'Transitology' in the Former Soviet Union", 9(1) Global Jurist (2009), with John D. Haskell (SOAS) (reproduced at &lt; Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .