#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/about/facts.php
Facts &amp; Figures - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News About FCBE Dean's Message Mission Statement Facts &amp; Figures General Information A to Z List Driving Directions FAQs Job Announcements Social Media Policy Faculty and Staff Student Contact Us Home FCBE About FCBE Facts &amp; Figures Facts &amp; Figures Enrollment ( Fall 2014 ) Total: 3,081 Undergraduate majors: 2,437 Master's students: 579 Ph.D. students: 65 Eight undergraduate business majors offered: Accounting Business Economics Business Information &amp; Technology (formerly MIS) Finance International Business Supply Chain Management Management Marketing Management Five different master's degrees offered: MBA Professional MBA Online MBA Customer-Driven MBA Entrepreneurship MBA Executive MBA MA-Economics MS-Accounting MS-Business Administration MS in Business Information &amp; Technology (formerly MIS) MS in Finance International MBA Program Ph.D. in Business Administration offered with six concentrations: Accounting Business Information &amp; Technology (formerly MIS) Economics Finance Management Marketing The Fogelman College holds both business and accounting accreditation from AACSB International, an honor earned by less than 5% of business schools world-wide, and is the only AACSB school in the Memphis metropolitan area. The College has maintained continuous accreditation since 1970. Fogelman comprises six academic units, including: the School of Accountancy, Departments Business Information &amp; Technology (formerly MIS); Economics; Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate; Management; and Marketing and Supply Chain Management. The FCBE has 97 full-time faculty, including 11 Chairs of Excellence Professors. Nearly 90% of the faculty have doctoral degrees and faculty hold doctoral degrees from over 50 respected universities. The Fogelman College differentiates itself by providing a unique Complete Professional Program that holistically prepares students with the tools to achieve both personal and professional excellence. Through the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center, FCBE provides training on ethics, healthy living habits, business etiquette, networking, professionalism, philanthropic activities, and more. The Complete Professional Program also provides individualized training and progress tracking for students. Such one-to-one training activities include, resume development, mock interviewing, career counselling, and more. In addition to the professional development differentiator, Fogelman College is also proud to distinguish itself based on the customized development of MBAs. Fogelman College offers a comprehensive portfolio of graduate programs including six different tracks to earn a MBA. These programs include the Customer-Driven MBA , International MBA , Entrepreneurship MBA, Executive MBA , Online MBA , and Professional MBA . Furthermore, Fogelman College works very closely with Memphis-area companies, many of them Fortune 500, to offer students invaluable hands-on learning experiences from professionals in these industries. Our Online MBA program is the recipient of several awards and distinctions such as the Princeton Review's 2015 ranking of Top Online MBA programs and as one of the best Online Business Schools for Veterans by U.S. News &amp; World Report . Furthermore, all faculty members are currently undergoing online certifications in order to ensure the excellence in rigor, quality, and overall experience of digital courses. The Fogelman College is also home to the Cook Analytics &amp; Trading Lab (The Cook Lab). The Cook Lab mimics a Wall Street trading firm. It is equipped with glass walls, real-time tickers and, most important, twelve Bloomberg terminals. These analytical terminals provide accurate, real-time financial data and are heavily utilized in most professional financial firms. The Cook Trading Lab offers innovative tools to help supplement traditional classroom teaching. It affords business students and faculty the resources to stay on the cusp of an ever-growing industry. The lab is a cutting-edge technology and data center that provides the opportunity for students to experience pragmatic, hands-on learning in an academic environment. The purpose is to ultimately prepare students with a more complete academic experience in order to become competent and confident finance professionals. Fogelman College also closely partners with several Centers &amp; Institutes: Memphis CIBER is one of 31 Centers for international business education and research in the United States, funded for over 20 years by $8 million in grants from the U.S. Department of Education. The Sparks Bureau for Business and Economic Research conducted over $3 million in contract and grant research in 2011. The Bureau is one of the largest bureaus for economic research in a college of business in the nation. The FedEx Center for Supply Chain Management is the only center in the U.S. devoted to industrial/academic collaboration for research in cycle time issues. The Fogelman College awards annually over $500,000 in scholarships to attract high-quality students to its programs and enrolls more honors students each year. The Fogelman College has over 30,000 alumni. About FCBE Dean's Message Mission Statement Facts &amp; Figures General Information A to Z List Driving Directions FAQs Job Announcements Social Media Policy Faculty and Staff Student Contact Us Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .