#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mktg/2015FMKTG7542001.pdf
1 Course Syllabus MKTG 7542 001 R etail Marketing Strategy T uesday and Thursday , 5 :30 p.m. 6 :55 p.m. F all Semester, 2015 3.0 Credit Hours Instructor: Dr. George D. Deitz, Ph.D. Office: Room 342 Fogelman Admin Bldg; Room 368 Fogelman Classroom Building (cNRL Lab) Phone: 678 - 2098 (Office); 825 - 7610 (Personal Cell) E - mail: gdeitz@memphis.edu Office Hours: Tuesday and Thursday: 10:00 - 11:30 pm or by appointment. REQUIRED COURSE MATERIALS Berman, B. and Evans, J. (2009), Retail Management a Strategic Approach , 11th ed. Pearson. ISBN: 0136087582 E - B ook: Wall Street Journal 15 Week Subscription ($15): Subscription Link: Retail Simulation (INFO TBA) Additional readings, podcasts and videos are assigned for most weeks and are available on the course site. COURSE DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES The focus of this course is on retail systems as a value delivery system. Essentially, it is a market - based strategy course that uses retail as an accessible and highly interesting context. As such, students will be expected to apply strategy frameworks introduced in the class as decision - making tools in the analysis of marketing problems faced by retail businesses. In order to apply strategy tools and frameworks to business issues faced by retail organizations, students must develop a strong understanding of key retailing concepts as well as emerging trends in retail management. As such, student can expect to gain increased understanding of key retailing concepts as well as emerging trends in retail management and operations over the course of the semester. 2 Student understanding of the of retailing and basic retailing concepts will be reinforced through text - based readings, presentations, and quizzes. Students will explore emerging trends in retailing and apply strategy frameworks to retail problems via class projects and case studies. LEARNING OUTCOMES Upon successful completion of this course you will: 1. Have a comprehensive view of competitive retail marketing strategy. 2. Know the traditional bases for segmentation and how segmentation can inform retail marketing strategy. 3. Understand how retailers differentia te their offerings as an element of their strategy. 4. Be able to identify the key factors that make positioning real for consumers and be able to produce cohesive plans for the store level management. 5. Know how organizational structure and processes at all levels of the organization facilitate cohesive management of elements of the retail mix in the positioning of the store. 6. Have a clear understanding of tactical decisions on retail mix for extracting profits form a retail offering. 7. Be able to measure and assess service levels and drivers of customer loyalty. 8. Have a broad perspective on managing retail customer experiences. 9. Be able to develop a sound retail marketing plan. COURSE CONDUCT AND EXPECTATIONS The course is based on lectures, cases, discussions, experiential assignments and exercises. You are expected to have completed assignments, read the assigned material and thought about it before each class session. Little or no class time will be devoted to topics that an average student can ea sily handle on the basis of self - study. For some topics, a discussion will precede an assignment or case. Frequently, however, you will be required to prepare the assignment or cases by studying the material on your own. You are always encouraged to participate and ask questions. There is no reason why you should not have an outstanding learning experience in this course if you possess a reasonable level of each one of the following characteristics. You are a student who: Is prompt, organized, detail oriented, and has good time management skills, Is curious and interested in learning the material, Follows instructions carefully, but also exhibits creativity and imagination, Is an active participant; asks appropriate questions and responds to questions, Works well in a team environment, Invests at least one hour outside the class for each hour spent in the class, Has strong verbal and written communications skills, Has good analytical and problem solving skills, and Exercises critical thinking. 3 Your involvement in the class is critical and the success of the course is dependent on your commitment to the "4 Ps" of student involvement. Borrowing from Professor Shapiro of Harvard, these are: 1. Preparation : If you do not read the assigned material and engage in thoughtful preparation on a timely basis, you cannot have a meaningful learning experience in this course. 2. Presence: If you are not present you cannot learn and, more importantly, cannot add your unique thoughts and insight to the class discussion. You are expected to attend class regularly and take all exams. Normally, there will be no makeup for missed exams. In the case of a documented legitimate excuse, you will be given a makeup test during the final exam week or at an earlier date. The course schedule is subject to change and it is your responsibility to stay informed of any changes in the course calendar, assignments, and deadlines. All changes will be announced in class. 3. Promptness : Students who enter the classroom late disrupt the discussion and any other activity underway, slowing down the learning process. Therefore, please be prompt. 4. Participation : Your learning experience is best facilitated by regular participation. You have the responsibility to co ntribute to the learning process by sharing your knowledge, insight, judgment and experiences with the class. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Your performance will be evaluated on the basis of tests, assignments and a final project. Questions for tests may be drawn from the text, assigned outside readings, class lecture and discussion materials. The following grading system will be used: Graded Components % of Grade Project (Group) 2 5 Simulation (Group, Objective Performance) 15 Individual Project 15 Final Exam (Take Home) 15 Cases (Including Critical Thinking Memos), Homework , Quizzes 15 Organizational Citizenship and Participation 15 TOTAL 100% 4 * TEAMWORK AND PEER EVALUATION REPORTS: Teamwork is an integral part of the course. Teams will be formed no later than the second week of the semester. Each team should be diverse enough to reflect the composition of the class in terms of ethnic background and gender. Once teams are established, they will remain intact for other assignments at the discretion of the instructor. A majority of the members of a team may decide to dismiss a team member, but no one can resign from the team. A student who is dismissed from a team will be responsible for the rest of the assignments as an individual, and will lose 25% of his/her scores that were earned while working as part of the team. Each team member will evaluate his/her teammates at the end of the semester via an online evaluation through a survey link provided by the instructor. These peer evaluations are very important and remain confidential. Further, each evaluator will be graded in terms of the completeness and thoroughness of the peer evaluations he/she submitted as well as the evaluations of their work provided by other team members. Appropriate accommodations will be provided to students with disabilities who present a memo from Student Disability Services (SDS). To maximize learning, several Guidelines for Professional Conduct apply in this class. In particular, cheating, plagiarism, and collusion will not be tolerated. (Refer to the University of Memphis Student Handbook for more information). Academic misconduct and classroom misconduct can result in serious penalties, including receipt of a failing grade in the class, suspension, and expulsion from the University.