#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/current_students/graduation_information/graduation.php
Graduation Information - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Current Students Contact Us Fellowship and Scholarship Information Graduate Assistantship Information Graduate School Calendar Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Orientation Presentation Graduation Information Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide Home Graduate School Current Students Graduation Information GRADUATION INFORMATION (Read page in its entirety before completing forms) A list of all graduation deadlines can be viewed here . REQUIRED FORMS Apply to Graduate (see bottom of page for instructions) NOTE: Fogelman College of Business and Economics Master's Students must proceed to the following web site to review FCBE deadlines for candidacy form(s) submission. Master's Degree Candidacy Form ( click for instructions ) Doctoral Degree Candidacy Form ( click for instructions ) Graduate Certificate Candidacy Form ** Course Substitution Form (attach to candidacy form, if needed) Failure to submit BOTH the graduation application and the degree and/or certificate candidacy form will delay your graduation until the next semester. FILING ELIGIBILITY RULES: You must have a cumulative graduate GPA of 3.00 or better. You must be fully admitted to a graduate degree and/or graduate certificate program before filing your graduation application. Non-Degree Students are NOT eligible to file for graduation. SUBMISSION PROCESS: We strongly recommend that you submit the candidacy form to your departmental advisor at least 1-2 weeks prior to the submission deadline so that the form will reach your respective College Director of Graduate Studies by the required deadlines. Any received after the deadline will NOT be approved or forwarded to the Graduate School for processing. NOTE: Beginning with the fall 2015 semester, students may request late processing of their candidacy form and/or their MyMemphis graduation application after the September 9, 2015 deadline. A late fee of $500 will be assessed. A Request to File for Graduation after Semester Deadline form may be obtained from the following website: IMPORTANT NOTES: Students completing a Graduate Certificate program must be officially admitted to the program in order to both apply to graduate and to officially receive the certificate. If you are not admitted, please submit a Change of Status application to Graduate Admissions (Wilder Tower 200) immediately. Students completing an Education Specialist degree may substitute the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences Education Specialist Program of Studies and Candidacy form for the Graduate School candidacy form. If you have not completed the EdS Program of Studies, the form must be completed and submitted to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline listed below. All future correspondence pertaining to graduation will be sent to student University email accounts only. No written correspondence will be sent via U.S. mail. Please check your university account periodically throughout the semester. DEGREE CERTIFICATION: Students will be certified for graduation only when all degree requirements are met, including the removal of all "I" or "IP" grades earned from previous semesters and the successful completion of comprehensive examination requirements or final approval of master's theses or doctoral dissertations. If degree candidates earn any "I" or "IP" grades during their last semester of enrollment, they will automatically be disqualified from graduation and will be notified of this disqualification via U of M email only. HOW TO "APPLY TO GRADUATE": Visit your MyMemphis portal at: To access the application, click on the MyDegree tab to locate the Commencement and Graduation channel. Follow the prescribed steps listed below: Carefully review Step 1 - Prerequisites to Graduate. Click on Step 2 - Apply to Graduate to complete application. Once Step 2 has been completed, proceed to Step 3 - Diploma Mailing/Cap and Gown form. All students are required to complete both the Diploma Mailing and Cap and Gown form, even if there are no plans to attend graduation exercises. For students completing only a graduate certificate program, there will be no access to the Cap and Gown portion as these students are not allowed to participate in graduation. During the middle of every semester, the Commencement Office will provide graduating students access to Step 4 - Attendance Card. After the application has been completed, click View Application to Graduate. Proceed to Step 3 only if you need to make changes to your name or to the diploma mailing address. Do not go back to Step 2. Current Students Contact Us Fellowship and Scholarship Information Graduate Assistantship Information Graduate School Calendar Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Orientation Presentation Graduation Information Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .