#http://www.memphis.edu/admissions/counselors.php
Meet Your Counselor - Admissions - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Admissions Freshmen Transfer Readmit Graduate Law International High School Home Admissions Meet Your Counselor Meet Your Counselor Eli Hatcher ( hatcher2@memphis.edu ) Eli serves the Eastern region of Tennessee including the counties of Anderson, Bledsoe, Blount, Bradley, Campbell, Carter, Claiborne, Cocke, Cumberland, Fentress, Grainger, Greene, Hamblen, Hamilton, Hancock, Hawkins, Jefferson, Johnson, Knox, Loudon, Mcminn, Meigs, Monroe, Morgan, Pickett, Polk, Putnam, Rhea, Roane, Scott, Sevier, Sullivan, Unicoi, Union, and Washington. Eli also serves as the Admissions Counselor for students from Alabama, Colorado, Minnesota, Montana, Oregon, and Washington. Hometown: Tuscumbia, AL Degree: B.A. in Psychology, Auburn University Favorite Quote: “Life is a storm, my young friend. You will bask in the sunlight one moment, be shattered on the rocks the next. What makes you a man is what you do when that storm comes.” - Alexandre Dumas Favorite Thing About Memphis: I love the history of Memphis, everything from the travel with riverboats and trains to the cultural history and musical heritage. Favorite Thing About the University of Memphis: The people are fantastic! It can have the feel of a small campus because everyone here seems to be your friend. At the same time the UofM has all the same opportunities of a large university. Oh, the sports are a good added bonus. I guess I can't pick just one! GO TIGERS! Adam Johnson ( ljhnsn35@memphis.edu ) Adam serves the Tennessee counties of Benton, Gibson, Humphreys, Houston, Madison, and Stewart. He also serves as the Admissions Counselor for students from Kansas, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming. Hometown: Medina, TN Degree: M.S. University of Tennessee, Martin; B.S. Business Administration, University of Tennessee, Martin Favorite Quote: "Never give up on a dream because of the time it will take to accomplish it. The time will pass anyway."-Earl Nightingale Favorite Thing About Memphis: Too many to pick just one! I love all of the great golf courses in the area, attending Memphis Redbirds games, the Zoo, and especially the great Bar-b-q at The Rendezvous! Favorite Thing About the University of Memphis: Whether you want to feel like you are attending a large campus or a smaller campus, you can feel right at home at the University of Memphis! Missy Labonte ( mlabonte@memphis.edu ) Missy serves the Northwest region of Tennessee including Crockett, Dyer, Haywood, Henry, Lake, Lauderdale, Obion, Tipton, and Weakley counties. Missy also serves as the counselor for students from Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, and Vermont. Hometown: Dyersburg, TN Degree: M.P.S., Strategic Leadership, University of Memphis; B.P.S., Organizational Leadership, University of Memphis Favorite Quote: “Be yourself, everybody else is already taken.” —Oscar Wilde Favorite Thing About Memphis: The whole package…I live in Dyersburg, and small town living is great except when there is nothing to do! I love to hop in the car for a quick day trip-music, the zoo, museums, sporting events, concerts, plays, food, and of course, shopping. It’s never-ending and FUN! Favorite Thing About the University of Memphis: The architecture and landscaping! Flowers, trees, and lawns are absolutely gorgeous in the spring and summer. Throw in the fountain and wonderful old (and new) buildings and you would never know you were in a major metropolitan area. Paige LeBlanc ( paige.leblanc@memphis.edu ) Paige serves the Middle region of Tennessee including the counties of Bedford, Cannon, Cheatham, Clay, Coffee, Davidson, Dekalb, Dickson, Franklin, Giles, Grundy, Hickman, Jackson, Lawrence, Lewis, Lincoln, Macon, Marion, Marshall, Maury, Montgomery, Moore, Overton, Robertson, Rutherford, Sequatchie, Smith, Sumner, Trousdale, Van Buren, Warren, White, Williamson, and Wilson. Paige also serves as the counselor for students from California, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, Louisiana, Maryland, New Mexico, and Virginia. Hometown: Madison, MS Degree: M.A. Higher Education Administration, Louisiana State University; B.A. Communication Studies, University of Southern Mississippi Favorite Quote: “Consult not your fears but your hopes &amp; your dreams. Think not about your frustrations, but about your unfulfilled potential. Concern yourself not with what you tried &amp; failed in, but with what it is still possible for you to do.” -Pope John XXIII Favorite Thing About Memphis: The food! There are so many great places to eat and things to see in Memphis. I love the variety of opportunities that can be found here. There is always something fun to do and new to try! Favorite Thing About the University of Memphis: I love the personal feel of this university. You can find whatever you’re looking for here – whether it’s a close-knit community or a large university experience – the UofM is the best of both worlds! The diverse range of academic programs, student organizations, and athletics allow for the exciting experience of a large school, but the caring faculty, staff, and students make it feel like home. What’s not to love? Steven Mizell ( samizell@memphis.edu ) Steven serves Shelby County (including the greater Memphis metro area) and students from Arizona, Arkansas, Indiana, Michigan, New Hampshire, Ohio, Texas, and Wisconsin. Hometown: Memphis, TN Degree: B.S. Mass Communication, Middle Tennessee State University Favorite Quote: “Life is a beach so just enjoy and play in the sand." – Steven A. Mizell Favorite Thing About Memphis: I love downtown Memphis…It has a little bit of everything! Great place to hang out…go out and chill out!! Favorite Thing About the University of Memphis: Basketball, Basketball, Basketball, Okay, seriously….Basketball. No, really I love the diversity of the campus! We have students from almost every state and from different countries across the world. Students from the small towns to large cities. However, they all bleed Tiger Blue and truly love the University of Memphis! Olivia Moore ( ojmoore@memphis.edu ) Olivia Serves the Tennessee counties of Carroll, Chester, Decatur, Hardeman, Hardin, Henderson, McNairy, Perry, and Wayne. She also serves as the Admissions Counselor for students from Alaska, District of Columbia, Oklahoma, Nevada, and Utah. Hometown: Memphis, TN Degree: M.Ed. Administration and Supervision in Higher Education, Middle Tennessee State University; B.P.S. Family and Consumer Sciences, The University of Memphis Favorite Quote: “Say yes and you’ll figure it out afterwards.” Tina Fey Favorite Thing About Memphis: The city of Memphis is my family. Memphians are passionate about our city and love supporting its growth. It’s practically busting at the seams with local food, entertainment, and shops. It’s the support and loyalty that makes Memphis such a one of a kind place to be. I’ve never been in another place where it feels like the city is practically wrapping it’s arms around you. Come visit us! Favorite Thing About the University of Memphis: The U of M is full of opportunity. Everywhere you look there is a place to be involved that is just perfect for you. The students are passionate about what they do and it just gets you pumped to be on campus. You should be excited to be at college and no place gets me more excited than the University of Memphis. Kelly Pietkiewicz ( kpitkwcz@memphis.edu ) Kelly serves Shelby and Fayette counties in Tennessee. Kelly also serves as the counselor for students from Georgia, Idaho, Iowa, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and West Virginia. Hometown: Shelbyville, TN Degree: B.S. in Education, The University of Memphis Favorite Quote: "It is our choices that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities." - J.K. Rowling Favorite Thing About Memphis: The spirit. The city of Memphis is full of hard working people from the multiple Top Fortune 500 Companies that call Memphis home to the numerous, successful small businesses! From the rich history of music and the civil rights movement, there’s no way that you can come to Memphis and not feel inspired. The city always pushes me to do my best. Memphis is full of people who are constantly living out Tony Allen’s mantra, “Grit &amp; Grind”! Favorite Thing About the University of Memphis: There are truly too many to list, but if I have to pick one thing I would have to say the students, staff, and faculty on campus. You are always greeted with a smile. This University truly treats its students like family. We are all TIGERS!! Jessica Rainer ( jsrainer@memphis.edu ) Jessica serves as the Admissions Counselor for all transfer and non-traditional students. Hometown: Memphis, TN Degree: M.A. Journalism, Public Relations Concentration, The University of Memphis; B.S. Mass Communications, Middle Tennessee State University Favorite Quote: "Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven't found it yet, keep looking. Don't settle. As with all matters of the heart, you'll know when you find it. ~Steve Jobs Favorite Thing About Memphis: The live music. I am a big music fan, and I LOVE going to restaurants with live bands, singing, and performances. I also enjoy all of the music/food festivals. Favorite Thing About the University of Memphis: The Tiger Pride. Every student, staff, and faculty member has a genuine love for the University, which makes for an exciting campus environment and atmosphere. Meet Your Counselor Meet the counselor assigned to assist you. Request Information Sign up as a True Blue Tiger. Visit the Campus Sign up for your own tour of the University of Memphis. Upcoming Events Learn what it means to be a Tiger! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .