#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies/prb.htm
Policy Review Board (PRB) - The University of Memphis Search Search Type Site People General Academic Finance Human Resources Information Technology Research Student Affairs All Recently Approved Policy Review Board (PRB) Policy Editor TBR Policies &amp; Guidelines Search the policies: Policies and Procedures The University of Memphis Policy Review Board (PRB) The University&#39;s Policy Review Board (PRB) assists in the formulation, review, and distribution of all University policies. Charge The Policy Review Board, a presidential standing committee, shall be comprised of representatives from the President and Provost's office, each Vice Presidential area of responsibility, Legal Counsel, Internal Audit, Athletics, Faculty Senate, Staff Senate, and Information Technology (support). They are entrusted with assisting in the formulation, review, and distribution of all university policies. The PRB shall ensure that each policy is written clearly, in the standard format. They shall also make recommendations to the Executive Officers so that policies are compatible with values and strategic priorities of the university. The PRB shall meet as needed. Goals To coordinate, encourage, and support the complete review and reformatting of all University policies to improve accuracy, clarity, and consistency with University values and strategic priorities. To identify and communicate conflicts between University policies and procedures and other policy sources. To identify potential issues warranting University policy statements and recommend action by the appropriate Executive Officer. To ensure that the University community is made aware of changes to policies when they occur. Members Dr. Reginald Green , Faculty Senate Mr. Bruce Harber , Business and Finance Ms. Susan Elliott , Communications, Public Relations and Marketing Dr. Robert Jackson , Information Technology Ms. Beverly Jacobik , Research Ms. Melanie S. Murry , University Counsel and Co-Chair Mr. Byron Morgan , Internal Audit Ms. Vanessa Muldrow , Student Affairs Ms. Jean Rakow , President's Office Dr. Catherine Serex , Academic Affairs and Co-Chair Ms. Katie Stella , Advancement Ms. Sherri Stephens , Staff Senate Forms and Templates All University policies are to be presented in a standard format. The University of Memphis Policy Editor website allows for the on-line generation of policies that comply with the standard format. Consult the online Help section for instructions on gaining access to and using the secure system. Request for Action Form Copyright 2014 University of Memphis | Important Notice | Memphis, Tenn. 38152 | 901/678-2000 Contact Us | Got a Question? Ask TOM