#http://www.memphis.edu/commencement/graduates/graduation-analyst.php
Graduation Analyst - Commencement Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Graduates Graduating Students Attendance &amp; Non-Attendance Form Program Proof Cord &amp; Stole Policy Dress Undergraduates Checklist Honors Distinction Graduate Students Checklist Graduate School Requirements Hooding Information Law Checklist Law School Information Cap and Gown Pick up Announcer Information Record Difficult Name Graduation Analyst College School List Diagrams Invitations Photos Alumni /FAM Membership FAQs Home Commencement Office Graduates Graduation Analyst Graduation Analyst Each student is assigned a Graduation Analyst within his or her college or school. The Graduation Analyst will receive your application for graduation and check your status and ensure you are enrolled in the correct number of hours for the term in which you have filed to graduate. If you are enrolled in the correct number of hours, you will be approved at the beginning of your final semester. If you you are not enrolled in your final coursework, you may be listed as ineligible or disqualified for for the term. You will need to speak to your Graduation Analyst and change your date to a future term. In addition to the emails you will receive from the Commencement Office, you will also receive emails and communication from your college/Graduation Analyst. GRADUATE SCHOOL &amp; LAW graduation analystS Graduate School- (All Masters, Specialists, Certificate and Doctoral Candidates) Ms. Michelle Stout 901.678.3560 mstout@memphis.edu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Ms. Cheryl Edwards &amp; Ms. Jamie Magdovitz Johnson 901.678.3639/ 901.678.2660 lawregistrar@memphis.edu UNDERGRADUATE GRADUATION ANALYSTS College of Arts &amp; Sciences Ms. Sylvia Nisar and Ms. Mary Jones 901.678.5454 casgraduation@memphis.edu College of Communication and Fine Arts Ms. Rika Hudson 901.678.2350 rlhudsn1@memphis.edu College of Education, Health and Human Sciences Ms. Mary Lanier 901.678.4309 mlanier@memphis.edu Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Mr. Cody Sacks 901.678.3905 cwsacks@memphis.edu Herff College of Engineering Ms. Lori Stewart 901.678.3247 ljstwart@memphis.edu Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Ms. Peggy Callahan 901.678.2962 mcllahan@memphis.edu Loewenberg School of Nursing Ms. Dee Beard 901.678.3984 ccbeard@memphis.edu University College Ms. Jackie Cole 901.678.2716 jdcole1@memphis.edu If you need to change your graduation date, missed the deadline to apply for graduation or have other academic related questions, please find your Graduation Analyst information above and contact them in a timely fashion to ensure the matter is resolved. Graduates Graduating Students Attendance &amp; Non-Attendance Form Program Proof Cord &amp; Stole Policy Dress Undergraduates Checklist Honors Distinction Graduate Students Checklist Graduate School Requirements Hooding Information Law Checklist Law School Information Cap and Gown Pick up Announcer Information Record Difficult Name Graduation Analyst College School List Diagrams Invitations Photos Alumni /FAM Membership FAQs Contact Us Got questions? Let us know how we may assist you. Commencement Attendance Form Will you be attending Commencement? Inform us! News Keep up with Commencement related information. Commencement Live Can't attend Commencement? Watch it live! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .