#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/mktg/2015FMKTG7555M50.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus MKTG 7555.201: Creativity & Innovation Fall Semester, 2015 2.0 Credit Hours (Last updated: 8 /1 1 /2015) Instructor: Gregory W. Boller; Ph.D. Phone1: 901.351.1407 Phone2: 901.678.2667 E - mail: gboller@memphis.edu Office: FCBE 319 Facebook: gboller Twitter: @gboller LinkedIn: in/gboller Office Hours: This is an on - line class. Hence, the standard means for communicating with the instructor is via email, the Inquiries thread on the course elearn discussion board, social media, and/or phone/text messages. If you would like a face - to - face meeting, please Course Overview Creativity and innovation are the lifeblood of any organization. And serious leaders must take responsibility for developing and fostering the creative, imaginative and innovative activities of their work teams. This course is designed with the understan ding that creativity and innovation can be, and must be, taught and developed. Moreover, creativity and innovation are enormously complex and sophisticated human activities. As such, they are the focus of intense academic scrutiny and need to be studied as substantive topics in their own right. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: None. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Kelley, Tom (2001), The Art of Innovation: Lessons in Creativity from IDEO, America's Leading Design Firm , New York, NY, Doubleday. Kelley, Tom and Jonathan Littman (2005), The Ten Faces of Innovation: IDEO's Strategies for Defeating the Devil's Advocate and Driving Creativity Throughout Your Organization, New York, NY, Doubleday Kelley, Tom and David Kelley (2013), Creative Confidence: Unleashing the Creative Potential Within Us All , New York, NY, Crown Business. Recommended Texts (and Related Materials) : MacKenzie, Gordon (1998), Surviving with Grace , New York, NY, Vi king. Location of Course Materials : This is an online course and all course materials (lectures, discussion topics, news, etc.) are located on the eCourseware website . Course Objectives : In this course, students' learning will be directed toward three areas: Theory and Knowledge This course provides ample content designed to improve student understanding about how and why people imagine & create; understanding about what enhances creativity; understandi ng about what impedes it. Tools and Techniques This course provides a variety of novel tools and techniques designed to foster the students' ongoing creativity development and learning. Some of these tools and techniques are focused on imagination & cr eativity, in general; other tools and techniques are focused on product ideation and design. Application -- The course features an opportunity to form and lead a deep - dive product ideation and design prototyping team. Each student will recruit and lead th to the class for evaluation. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree This course is designed to help you to meet the overall learning objectives for the MBA degree offered by the Fogelman College. You should take the time to become familiar with the overall learning objectives as a student in the EMBA program: http:/ / Course Methodology This is an online course and much of the learning will be self - managed and self - paced. This The class will begin on August 24 (12:01am). When you awaken for the day, please check - in to the course via elearn.memphis.edu. Materials will be loaded, and discussions started, on the course elearn site please familiarize yourselves with the content and discussion threads asap. Please note that even though the course is asynchronous, there are specific deadlines for course deliverables. In general, you should assist the instructor in creating a positive, emotionally supportive environment for learning by staying engaged in the course and actively participating in all in - class and online assignments, projects, discussions and debriefs. And i n the interest of disclosure and openness (which are key elements in any culture dedicated to creativity and innovation), I thought I would share some common complaints that students have voiced to me about this class and my responses to those complaints. Using written and spoken language to shape meaning, to motive, to persuade, to compel, to inspire, to arouse passion and excitement, to teach, to mentor, to create visions, to convey, appreciate, admire, and celebrate the vicissitudes of human experience is what being a leader (of a company or any organization) is ultimately all a bout. Poetic expression is a particularly liberating way to create new vocabularies (and thus meaning) with which we can describe our environment, each other, and our relationships therein. To approach our use of language in a poetic way is to open ourselv es more to possibilities than settled certainties. And this is why I am particularly fond of encouraging students to develop a felicity with this genre of expression. Public performances of creative expression are essential to your development as a leader. If you are uncomfortable with or incapable of creative expression, how can you possibly expect the same from the people you expect to lead? Cherish the opportunity of advanced communication training in a business program. to recruit a team from outside class This is the only place in your curriculum where you will get an opportunity to practice an essential skill of leadership recruiting talent. Also, y ou are solely responsible for the efforts of your team and all of the deliverables no hiding behind the efforts of others on a class team; you have to be the leader! ne recruiting colleagues from work this is an excellent opportunity to share training with others in your organization at no additional cost! Graduate level courses are (or should be) more demanding and challenging than undergraduate courses. And the work load and associated time commitment for this course is more daunting because my evidentiary demands for perfor mance are higher than most (eight separate points of evaluation). I set very high standards of creative excellence for myself; I expect the same from my students. Please note also that the project for this class is not your conventional class pr oject (e.g., 5 7 students in a class team sharing the work load and responsibilities). In this class, you are responsible for recruiting, managing and leading an all - volunteer innovation team of your own choosing. And you alone are responsible for the de liverables from your team, just as you would be in the world outside of academe. This is a difficult and challenging project I know. But the educational rewards are indeed worth the effort! Student's Expectations: In my role as your instructor, there ar e certain things you can expect from me including: a deeply thought - out, passionately inventive, and fully committed learning experience; same day responses to emails, texts or other inquiries; feedback on all work submitted within 5 - 7 calendar days. Grading and Evaluation Criteria In this course, students will be evaluated on three basic dimensions: Demonstrated assignments, the prototype presentation, and the debrief paper); felicity with creativity and innovation tools (assessed through demonstrated, active engagement in our collective learning, and class exercises); ability to apply creativity knowledge and tools toward forming and leading teams to solve practical i nnovation problems (assessed through Deep Dive project deliverables). The specific point breakdown is as follows: Creative contributions 10% Personal creativity assignments 30 % Deliverables for Deep Dive project 4 0% Written rationale for team member selection Edited video of you facilitating the brainstorming Spreadsheet of brainstorming ideas Prototype presentation to class Course debrief paper 20% Here are my expectations for completing each of your graded assignments and projects: Creative contributions. One of the keys to becoming more creative and innovative is to learn how to relax your own internal filters more often you need to do less self - censorship and more interpersonal risk - taking with your ideas. Toward that end, you will be graded on your demonstrated willingness to step forward and share your ideas, thoughts and visions (no matter how crazy you might initially think them to be) with and sitting silently while others contribute. I expect enthusiastic, frequent contributions to our online passion and a fiery dedication to learning. These assi gnments are, in part, intended to fuel online discussion and debate. Personal creativity assignments. One of the overriding goals of this course is to provide you with the incentive, opportunity, and impetus to jumpstart (or enhance) your own personal cr eativity development. Like any other vital human skill, creativity needs to be developed, exercised, and nurtured with serious dedication and focus. One of the keys to becoming more creative and innovative is to learn how to relax your own internal filte rs more often you need to do less self - censorship and more interpersonal risk - taking with your ideas. Toward that end, you will be graded on your demonstrated willingness to step forward and share your creativity with others in a very public way. I hav e crafted two assignments that will give you an opportunity to stretch your imagination and move you out of your typical comfort zones. Your first assignment, which is due on September 8 , is to pen an original poem about some experience that was particularly impactful to you in the last five years. The poem can either be free - verse or rhymed - verse, but should be clearly composed with an eye and ear to the poetics of language (i.e., it sh ould not be prose). There is no length requirement, and you are also free to use whatever meter pattern and poetic form that best titillates your poem dropbox so tha t I can give you feedback. The keys to success with the poem assignment are as follows: 1) Take the assignment seriously and do the performance as if you were being graded on your creative and poetic writing ability. This assignment is, in part, about lear ning how to lose your conventional self by immersing yourself in the imagined possibilities of expressive, symbolic language. And you cannot derive the benefits I want you to derive unless you approach the performance in an earnest, contemplative manner. 2 Writing is re - use words and phrasings in e strive to do much better than mere prose with rhymed end - of - line words. ++++++++++++++++++++ Getting started with this assignment : Poets.org has a great list of online resources! Check out their essays and links to other poets. Try this site to hunt down some great poems written by others: Since Shakespeare, you might try reading some his sonnets for inspiration. Sometimes, it's easier to begin (rather than just jumping into poetic writing) by penning your thoughts in prose. Then, start re - working them in poetic expression -- experimenting with the met re, the sounds of words, imaginative new phrasings and metaphors, and innovative rhyming schemes. Be patient. Keep re - writing...keep playing...keep experimenting. In previous semesters, many students simply composed prose with some end - of - line rhymes. Not really poetry, is it? Think about using metaphors (or even similes). Don't be so literal. Make your audience work a bit to crack the code of your meaning. Create new phrasings of the ordinary that will rock our worlds! Be inventive with your use of languag e, not ordinary and conventional. Please pay careful attention paid to metre -- rhythm. A fundamental truth of the human brain is that we are each wired to seek patterns in life (rhythm is obviously a pattern). Language that possesses a discernible, evocat ive rhythm will be more readily attended to and remembered than language that is not. And now you know a fundamental truth of persuasive communication! Experts in persuasive communication (e.g., marketing people) are serious students of poetic rhythms. This assignment is complex. It takes a lot of work. Challenge yourselves to move beyond prose with a few rhyming words. Scansion is a method of examining the rhythmic structure of a poem. I tend to rely upon both syllabic count and accentual patterning in my own poetry, so my scansions will pick up both. Here is a link to a quick primer on scansion that you might find instructive: Please rem ember to pay attention to punctuation in your poems. Punctuation tells the speaker (remember, poems are always meant to be spoken, not merely read) where to breathe. And breathing is a natural part of speaking rhythm, yes? Try different punctuations (e l lip ses [for trailing thoughts], colons [to make an introduction of thoughts or observations], semi - colons [for an elongated breath that's not as deep as a full stop], etc...). Play, experiment and have fun! ++++++++++++++++++++ Your second assignment, which is due on September 15 , is to learn a Shakespearean monologue (chosen for you by me ) and perform it live, in - front of a video camera. Your performance should be recorded with your head and shoulders filling the frame yes, close - up ! Th is is important! Do NOT film yourself in either medium or long shot we want to be able to clearly see the expressions on your face, hence the need for a close - up ! You After you have finished filming, please load your monologue performance onto youtube.com or vimeo.com , and post the link on elearn in the discussion thread monologue is quite short -- only 12 - 16 (or so) lines, so this shouldn't be scary. Instead, it will be an amazingly sumptuous experience! You will be speaking/performing some of the most famous words ever written in all of human language. Your monologue must be memorized (this will be much easier than you think -- Shakespeare is beautifully written). You will need to research your character, the play, and the specific scene in which your monologue occurs. You're not merely speaking these words as yourself, but as another character with motivations and intentions that are likely quite different from what you have personally experienced before. Hence, empathy should be a key take - away from this assignment. found under the Content tab. The keys to success with this monologue are as follows: 1) Take the assignment seriously and do the performance as if you were being graded on your acting ability. This assignment is, in part, about learning how to lose your co nventional self by immersing yourself in the imagined experiences of another character, and then sharing those experiences in expressive presentation. And you cannot derive the benefits I want you to derive unless you approach the performance in an earnest , contemplative manner. 2) Thoroughly understand the meaning of all of the words that you are speaking, why you are speaking them, and the context in which they are spoken. This will require some research and some thought. Please write a one - page character summary that a) describes who you are playing, b) the setting and scene in which you are playing, c) what your character is trying to accomplish with his or her words in this scene. Please post this one - page character summary in the Shakespeare dropbox on elearn. 3) Memorize your lines! Reading your Most of Shakespeare is written in verse, and his phrasings are often unfamiliar to modern ears. But they are beautifu lly rendered, and if you take the time to work with his words, I am confident that you will discover wonderfully new ways to use language in your own life. At the age of 51, I learned more than 1100 lines playing Richard III (and 300 of those lines I learn ed in a mere two weeks). If I could do all of those lines at the advanced age of 51, you (young as you are) can memorize 12 16 lines; seriously, you can! 4) Revel in the sound of is the You Like It for this reference) Savor your words; make them your own, and your audience will be astounded. ++++++++++++++++++++ Getting started with this assignment: The first step is to know your play, know your scene, and know your character. Don't just memorize a bunch words and expect that they'll sound like anything di fferent than a word salad. No Fear Shakespeare ( ) is helpful for a lot of people because they will provide you with a broad - brush "translation" of sorts. It's not perfect (in fact, there are a great many errors), but it will get you started. Also try Shakespeare Navigators ( - navigators.com ). The notes are excellent and often give a lot of historical detail. They don't have all of the plays, so some of you will be out of luck with respect to this site. The Folger Library ( ) is an outstanding reference site for really di gging into your scenes and character! This is a MUST visit for your preparatory work. And don't forget Wiki for synopses and plot summaries. Next, take a look at how professional actors play Shakespeare. Do a YouTube search for the terms Shakespeare and Globe. You'll see some outstanding clips of performances by the Royal Shakespeare Company at the Globe Theatre in London. Now, don't try to copy their performances. Just listen to how they speak the words. One of the first things you'll notice is that they follow the punctuation -- you'll want to do the same thing. While you're on YouTube, search "John Barton Playing Shakespeare." This is the definitive instruction -- every professional actor studies with the Barton method. You'll be able to glean some ama zing ideas from this multi - part series. ++++++++++++++++++++ Deliverables for Deep Dive project . This class is largely centered on learning specific techniques and methods to direct individual creativity in ideation practice that will result in valuable innovations. As leaders, you are (or will be) responsible for creating and leading high - powered innovation teams. And for this assignment, you will individually form and lead an innovation team (no less than 4, but no more than 10 members) on a Deep Dive (brainstorming and rapid product prototyping). Please note that you will not be working with members of your class; instead, you will recruit and work with an all - volunteer team of your own choosing. The ideation team that you form will be responsible for creating original, substantive improvements in a consumer (not B2B) product of your choice. The product that you choose could be anything breakfast cereal, snack chips, rate original, creative ideas to improve consumer experiences with the product category in ways not currently available. You will then be responsible for choosing one or more of these ideas, and building a prototype to present to the class. This Deep Dive new business venture and reap financial rewards for you and your team. Perhaps your innovation prototypes can find funding through kickstarter.com, quirky.com, st how far you want to take your educational experience in this class is entirely up to you! Key deliverables include: 1. Written report listing your recruited team members, and your rationale for selection. This report must include ive talents specifically relevant for your project, personalities, interpersonal skills, prior ideation experience, associations with other team members, and other areas of expertise that will be valuable to your Deep - Dive. Additionally, I would like to se e photographs of your team members, and basic contact information (email and phone number). You will be graded on the completeness and professionalism of this document (imagine ure approval to hire your team). Please post this in recruting dropbox on elearn. 2. Edited brainstorming video (5 minutes maximum length and uploaded to YouTube) that shows you facilitating the brainstorming session with your innovation team. Do not post a v ideo longer than 5 minutes, because I will not watch it beyond the 5 minute mark (brevity and efficiency in communication is a skill we all need to practice). You do not need to add post - production elements like music or titles. But I do need to be able to see your brainstorming team, the environment in which you conducted your brainstorming, and you actually facilitating the session. Moreover, I need to be able to clearly hear everyone speaking on the video. You will be graded on the extent to which I can clearly see (and hear) that you are utilizing the brainstorming methodology taught in this class . Do not freelance your brainstorming methodology unless you wish your grade to suffer. Please post a link 3. Spreadsheet with ideas generated during brainstorming (multiple rounds for each you will learn in this class). Please do not submit a Word document or a .pd f; I require a spreadsheet of your brainstorming ideas please use the template that I have already provided in the Content section under brainstorming. In brainstorming, we seek quantity of ideas and originality of ideas; quality gets assessed later dur ing prototyping. You will be graded on the quantity and originality of ideas generated by your brainstorming team. For a project of this nature, with a brainstorming team comprised of seven talented, creative individuals, you should easily be able to gener ate several hundred unique product improvement ideas using the methodology you learn in this class. Please post this in the brainstorming dropbox on elearn. SPECIAL NOTE: The product improvement ideas generated during your brainstorming session are NOT your ideas! You are the team lead and facilitator that means you will need to draw the creative ideas from your team members. You will ultimately be responsible for prototyping specific ideas, but the creative genesis for all ideas needs to be sourced to your team members. Hence, how you select your innovation team, and what you do to motivate the creativity of your team members is crucial to your success on this challenging and complex project! 4. Videotaped prototype presentation (5 minutes maximum leng th) of selected product improvement prototype from the concepts generated by your ideation team. Your job is to present tangible representations (not finished products) of your om the class. Please remember that your ideation team donated (to you) generous amounts of time and creative talent you are giving voice and tangible demonstration (through your prototype) to their efforts. This is a professional presentation, and I expe ct that you will be well - rehearsed, emotional ly present, and command the screen with the language of leadership and executive presence. Business - professional attire is required. You will be graded on the professionalism with which you present your prototyp e, and the degree to which your prototype clearly demonstrates an original improvement over the status quo. Please post a link to your YouTube or Vimeo presentation in the discussion thread, Prototyping. Course debrief paper. To complete your course, you will write an individual debrief paper that reflects upon and distills meaning from your experiences. The debrief paper should be introspective and personally reflective (not a mere objective summary of events), and should b e a minimum of 8 pages in length. In this paper, you should answer four fundamental questions. 1) What did I do particularly well in this course, and why ? 2) What did I not do particularly well in this course, and why ? 3) What did I learn about myself and other people while working on the assignments in this course? 4) What will I do differently on future innovation assignments, tasks and projects as a result of what I have learned from my experiences in this course? Remember, this is an individual de brief paper; you write it by and about yourself. While it is not intended to be read by anyone other than me, you are certainly free to share your paper with others in the class, if you wish. You will be graded on the completeness in which you address the questions above, and the provocativeness of your learning insights. Please post this paper in the debrief dropbox on elearn. Final Course Grades Final course grades are earned according to the following table: Point Range Assigned Grade 90 - 100 Points A 80 - 89 Points B 70 - 79 Points C 65 - 69 Points D Under 65 Points F Course Topics The creative impetus Techniques for enhancing creative thinking Role of environments in organizational creativity Overcoming self - censorship The Deep - Dive methodology Rapid prototyping Deconstructing conventional brainstorming methods The third - third reconstruction of brainstorming techniques Performing creatively Recruiting ideation teams Types of innovation Sources of innovative ideas Innovation adoption characteristics Th e voice and mind of the customer Fundamentals of user - centered design Deconstructing existing designs Balancing aesthetics, functionality and idealized purpose in design Key chall Collaborative High - Performing Teams Creativity Leadership S chedule of Activities This is an online course, and thus, you may self - pace your learning. Generally speaking, the module sequence under your Content tab, as well as the discussion sequence in the class Discussion Board. Deadlines for assignments September 8 Original poetry assignment due September 15 Shakespearean monologue performances due (and one - page, written character summary September 29 Written rationale for team member selection due November 10 Brainstorming videos and spreadsheets due December 1 Prototype presentations due December 8 Course debrief papers due Other important dates: Aug. 24 Firs t day of class Sept. 7 Labor Day Oct. 10 13 Fall Break Nov. 25 29 Thanksgiving Dec. 2 Last day of classes Final Exam Schedule There is no final exam for this course. However, your debrief paper is due on December 8 . Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will receive all o fficial course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not re gularly responsibility. Attendance: Since this is a hybrid online class taught asynchronous ly, formal attendance will n ot be taken. However, you are expected to stay active and engaged throughout the academic term and keep up wi th the schedule of activities. Your full engagement in the class begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is submitted. For students receiving federal s tudent loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attend ance and potentially impact access to student loans in the future. Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. is considered c heating. Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questio ns about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Late Assignments: Assignments and projects are expected to be completed and submitted on or before their due date. Assignments and projects submitted past the deadline, without prior permission from the instructor, will receive zero credit. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance Gregory W. Boller (bio) Greg is an Associate Professor of Marketing, former Director of MBA Programs and former Chairman of the Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management. Greg holds BS, MS and PhD degrees in Marketing from Penn State University. In addition to marketing, his training includes psycholinguistics, rhetoric, and poetics. Greg has been at the University of Memphis since 1988, and teaches creativity & innovation, negotiation, global marketing strategy and philosophy of science. Greg' s current research interests center on empathy, business ethics and performance ethnography . His work has been published in The Journal of Consumer Research, The Journal of Advertising, The Journal of Business Research, Journal of Current Issues and Resea rch in Advertising, The Journal of Marketing Management, The Journal of Healthcare Marketing, Advances in Consumer Research and the Proceedings of the Pacific Sociological Association . Greg regularly conducts creativity, leadership, negotiation and communications training seminars for companies (e.g., Hilton Worldwide, ALSAC/St. Jude, Baptist Memorial Hospital, FedEx, AutoZone, and Williams Sonoma) and executive development programs. He has served as an advertising consultant to the US Navy. Greg s erved as political research consultant to ABC News, the Foundation for National Progress, and the National Institute on Media and the Family. He also served as a lobbying strategy consultant for the National Hardwood Lumber Association and Family Business First. In addition to his academic and consulting responsibilities, Greg is an enthusiastic member of the Memphis theatre community. Greg recently served as a member of the Theatre Memphis Board of Directors, and two terms as a member of the Germantown C ommunity Theatre Board of Directors (was Board President during the 2004 - 2005 season). Currently, Greg is serving as a member of the Theatre Memphis Season Selection Committee , a Board Member with New Moon Theatre, and a Board member with Chatterbox Aud io Theatre. As an actor, Greg's favorite roles include C.P. Ellis in Best of Enemies (Circuit Playhouse; 2014); Joe Keller in All My Sons (Germantown Community Theatre; 2015); Richard in Richard III (Theatre Memphis; 2011), Stanley in A Streetcar Named Des ire (Theatre Memphis; 2004), The Creature in Frankenstein (New Moon Theatre at Theatre Works, 2013) and Kent in King Lear (New Moon Theatre at Theatre Works; 2012). Greg is currently rehearsing the role of Titus in Titus Andronicus (opening October 23 at Theatre Works ). Greg is an avid (and eternally injured) tennis player, a struggling musician (he plays the guitar, didgeridoo and the djembe), and a brooding vegetarian cook. Greg is married, and has two daughters.