#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/graduate/schhist.php
School Psychology Program - Historical Statement - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources Graduate Clinical About the Program Clinical Faculty Child Clinical Clinical Health Psychology Psychotherapy Research Admission Clinical Student Handbook Clinical Forum Schedule Experimental About the Program Experimental Faculty Cognitive Behavioral Neuroscience Required Courses Admission Financial Support School About the Programs School Faculty Child &amp; Family Studies Research Group Historical Statement Financial Support M.S./Ph.D. Program Philosophy and Training Model M.S./Ph.D. Program Goals and Objectives Doctoral Handbook Resources and Information School Psychology Association M.A./Ed.S.Program Goals What is a School Psychologist Masters in General Psychology About the Program Program Goals Required Courses Admission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for Applying Department Application Graduate School Application Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCC GSCC Concerns/Complaints GSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources APA Required Disclosures Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Home Department of Psychology Graduate School Psychology Program - Historical Statement School Psychology Program - Historical Statement Historical Development and Governance The history of the School Psychology Programs at The University of Memphis dates primarily from 1975 and is closely tied to the histories of the Department of Psychology and the College of Education (COE). Although school and clinical psychology offerings and an MA degree program were available during the period 1960-1975, the present jointly sponsored MA/EdS program (Department of Psychology and COE) was formally initiated in 1976. It was an outgrowth of changes in the requirements for Tennessee State Department of Education certification (now licensure) of school psychologists in Tennessee (circa 1975) and the need for a revised school psychology program at what was then called Memphis State University. The revised program, a 45-semester-hour MA degree, was developed by a School Psychology Coordinating Committee (SPCC), established at the request of the Vice President for Academic Affairs. The SPCC functioned as the policy-making body for the jointly sponsored MA/EdS program until August, 2015. The new MA program was the first instance of a school psychology specific degree. Dr. Thomas Fagan, the first bona fide school psychologist faculty member, was hired in 1976. Dr. Bruce Bracken served the program from 1986-1999, and Dr. Wendy Naumann served from 1998-2001. Dr. Randy Floyd joined the faculty in 2001. Dr. Robin Phaneuf served from 2002-2006, and Dr. Laura Casey served on an interim basis as a visiting assistant professor from 2006-2007. Dr. Elizabeth Meisinger joined the faculty in 2007, and Dr. Xu (Lilya) Jiang joined the faculty in 2015. Drs. Fagan, Floyd, Meisinger, and Jiang constitute the core program faculty and are supported by faculty in other areas of the Psychology Department, the COE, and local practitioners who assist in field supervision. Administered from the Psychology Department, the jointly sponsored MA/EdS program was indirectly overseen by the Dean of the COE and the Chair of the Psychology Department until 2015. The MA/EdS program was governed by a 10-member SPCC. All policies and curricula related to this program were the responsibility of the committee and were implemented by the MA/EdS program Director. The SPCC developed a set of policy statements for the program as well as the original 45-semester-hour MA degree in 1975-1976. The current 67-semester-hour combined MA/EdS degree curriculum was initiated in 1982. The PhD program was initiated in 1991 but governed by the policies of the Psychology Department's PhD major. Program curricula and requirements for the different programs (MA/EdS and PhD) were determined entirely by the SPCC and by the Psychology Department, respectively. Starting in the fall of 2014, the directorship of the two programs was divided with Dr. Fagan continuing as the director of the MA/EdS program and Dr. Floyd assuming the directorship of the PhD program. The programs continued to overlap is several areas of the curriculum and other areas (e.g., the School Psychology Association and practica). In the summer of 2015 at a meeting of the core faculty with the UM Provost, the Interim Dean of the College of Education, and the chair of the Department of Psychology, it was agreed to restructure the governance of the MA/EdS program by drawing it into the governance of the Psychology Department. A revised School Psychology Program Committee (SPPC) was created to oversee the MA/EdS and the MS/PhD programs. The 2015 restructured governance arrangement retains the separate directorships, and the chair of the SPPC rotates between the two directors. The MA/EdS program has been accredited by NASP/NCATE (now CAEP) since the 1970s and first received NCATE/NASP approval in 1988. This approval has been uninterrupted and is active through December, 2017. Accreditation of the PhD program from the American Psychological Association was awarded in fall, 2014 and is active until 2021. Graduate Clinical About the Program Clinical Faculty Child Clinical Clinical Health Psychology Psychotherapy Research Admission Clinical Student Handbook Clinical Forum Schedule Experimental About the Program Experimental Faculty Cognitive Behavioral Neuroscience Required Courses Admission Financial Support School About the Programs School Faculty Child &amp; Family Studies Research Group Historical Statement Financial Support M.S./Ph.D. Program Philosophy and Training Model M.S./Ph.D. Program Goals and Objectives Doctoral Handbook Resources and Information School Psychology Association M.A./Ed.S.Program Goals What is a School Psychologist Masters in General Psychology About the Program Program Goals Required Courses Admission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for Applying Department Application Graduate School Application Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCC GSCC Concerns/Complaints GSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources APA Required Disclosures Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .