#http://www.memphis.edu/law/programs/business-law-certificate.php
Business Law Certificate - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Home School of Law Programs Business Law Certificate BUSINESS LAW CERTIFICATE The goal of the Certificate in Business Law is to enable students who are interested in a career involving business-related practice areas to follow a specialized course of study, to work closely with other students interested in the area, and to receive guidance from faculty members with an interest and expertise in business law. A student who receives the Certificate in Business Law demonstrates knowledge of fundamental principles of business-related legal issues and competence in the skills essential to a business-related practice. For more information about the Certificate in Business Law, please contact Prof. Kevin Smith at ksmith@memphis.edu . COURSE REQUIREMENTS A student must successfully complete business-related study by taking courses from the lists below. Required Courses: All the following courses. Business Organizations I (3 hours) Corporate Tax (3 hours)* Commercial Law Survey (4 hours) or both Secured Transactions (3) and Sales(3) Core Electives: At least two (2) of the following courses. Administrative Law (3) Debtor-Creditor or Problems in Bankruptcy (3) Mergers &amp; Acquisitions (3) Non-profit Organizations (3) Partnership Tax (3)* Securities Regulations (3) Skills Component: At least one of the following courses. ADR-Arbitration (2-hour skills course) ADR-Labor (2-hour skills course) ADR-Mediation (2-hour skills course) Business-related Externship (2-, 3-, or 4-hour skills course) Contract Drafting (2-hour skills course) Mediation Clinic (4-hour skills course) The Director of the Business Law Program may add courses to these lists to reflect new curricular offerings and may approve substitutions in compelling circumstances. NON-COURSE REQUIREMENTS Student must complete at least twenty-five hours of non-course work related to business law while enrolled in the Certificate program. The student must complete at least five hours of work each semester. Permissible activities include participating in the VITA program and performing pro bono work that involves Memphis Area Legal Services Consumer or Tax units and others in consultation with the Pro Bono Coordinator and the Director of the Business Law Certificate Program. Student must also attend one meeting of students who are enrolled in the Certificate program each semester. GRADE POINT REQUIREMENTS A student must demonstrate successful understanding of the fundamentals of business-related law by receiving grades of at least C, and achieving an overall GPA of at least 2.5 in the building block courses of Legal Methods I and II, Contracts, and Professional Responsibility. Students must receive a GPA of at least 3.0 in courses taken to satisfy the Certificate in Business Law. A student will receive the Certificate in Business Law with Honors by completing the graded courses taken to satisfy the Certificate with a GPA of 3.5 or higher and receiving a grade of Excellent in at least two-thirds of the non-graded courses taken to satisfy the Certificate requirements. ENROLLMENT Students in good academic standing may enroll in the Certificate in Business Law program after completing one year of full-time law study (or thirty hours as a part-time student). A student may not enroll after the add deadline in the student's fourth semester of full-time study (or of the semester after a part-time student has completed forty-five hours of study). A student enrolls by completing an enrollment form and submitting it to the Director of the Business Law program. In completing the form, the student certifies that he or she can satisfy the grade requirements for the Certificate program and is committed to completing all of the Program's requirements. A student will be dropped from the Program if he or she fails to meet the requirements. *Both Corporate Tax and Partnership Tax require Income Tax Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .