#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/bus/
BA Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (BA) The courses listed below are designated with "BA" numbers in order that they may be available to advanced graduate students with a major in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. They may be accepted toward the completion of the degree requirements. NOTE: Students taking Business courses will be charged an additional $30 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: 7700-30. Special Topics in Business Administration. (1-6). Special study of problems in business and economics. Topic areas change each semester as determined by new developments in business. PREREQUISITE: Permission of associate dean for academic programs. BA 7651 - Health Systems Pharmacy Mgmt (3) Comprehensive analysis of a pharmacy service program critical to successful performance and outcomes in a hospital/healthcare system including 1) leadership and practice management, 2) methods to ensure rational medication therapy, 3) effective medication distribution and control systems, 4) appropriate staff, finances and technology to support operations, 5) facility resources, 6) pharmacy data management, 7) collaboration with other health care professionals and organizations/associations. BA 7719 - Strategic Change Managment (1) As organizational environments become increasingly dynamic, with technological, economic, political and social, changes occurring at ever faster rates, so the transformation of organizational structures and practices has become the most pervasive issue with which organizational leaders have had to contend. Whether it be adopting a new technology, restructuring to improve efficiency, or expanding an operation to a new geographical locale, so being able to cope with, and lead, change efforts has become an ever more important part of the senior managerial role. Consequently, the purpose of this course is to develop your understanding of strategic organizational change processes. BA 7750 - Surv Internatl Business (3) Overview of global business methods and practices, including management, marketing, financial, and economic complexities in a global business environment; varying emphasis on different functional areas of interest; an introduction and preparation for the International Business Practicum. BA 7800 - Internship In Business (1-6) Internship in business organization to gain on-the-job experience in actual management environment; project to be approved by College Internship Director and supervised by graduate faculty. PREREQUISITES: 15 semester hours of graduate credit and minimum GPA 3.25. BA 7900 - Research Pract/Masters (1-9) Practical demonstration of and experience in the design, practice, and methodology of research in business. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. May not be used to satisfy degree requirements. BA 7910 - Problems Intl Bus (1-6) Directed independent or group study and research in international business area. Study projects may be designed by student(s) with approval of supervising faculty member. PREREQUISITE: Permission of associate dean for academic programs. BA 7920 - Contxt Envrn Intl Bus (1-12) Accommodates transfer credit (pre-approved by IMBA coordinator) taken abroad; business, language, and area study courses in cultural, economic, historical, philosophical, political, social or legal context. Credit varies according to content; no more than 12 hours may apply toward degree. Restricted to students enrolled in IMBA concentration. BA 7950 - Practicum Intl Business (3-9) Practicum in foreign business or academic organization to gain management skills and experience; work experience in non-English speaking country; enrollment must be approved by the Associate Dean for Academic Programs. PREREQUISITE: 12 hours of graduate business courses. BA 7960 - Pharm Exec Innovation Project (3) A longitudinal project based on a practical health-system pharmacy problem currently faced by the student?s employer. The student will work under the guidance of full-time faculty members and an external coach (who will be an experienced health-system pharmacy director). A report on the completed project will be presented at the final residential week of the program. The project report will consist of a proposed solution to the problem under investigation. BA 8800 - Reading For Comps (1-12) Directed readings as preparation for comprehensive examinations. Arranged on an individual basis; limited to Ph.D. students in Business Administration. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Students must have completed or be in the last semester of required course work and have permission of the College Ph.D. coordinator. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. BA 8900 - Research Pract/Doctoral (1-9) Practical demonstration of and experience in the design, practice, and methodology of research in business. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. May not be used to satisfy degree requirements. BA 8901 - Teaching Practicum (1-6) Practical demonstration of and experience in the art of teaching business topics. Required course for PhD students. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. May not be used to satisfy any degree requirements. BA 8920 - Dissertation Seminar (1-3) Research design and methodology in administrative sciences; guidance in preparing dissertation proposal; students present progress reports to other seminar members to critique the progress of fellow students and acquire skills and knowledge in research design and methodologies. To be taken during the last 12 hours of doctoral coursework. BA 9000 - Dissertation (1-12) Independent research for Doctor of Business Administration degree. Only 18 hours will be counted towards degree requirement. Student must be enrolled in this course during the semester in which the student expects to graduate. PREREQUISITE: Successful completion of comprehensive exam or permission of the Vice Provost for Graduate Programs. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .