#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/services/awards_ccfa.php
The College of Communication and Fine Arts Awards - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Services to Students The College of Communication and Fine Arts Awards The College of Communication and Fine Arts Awards Dean’s Academic Achievement Award is available to a student majoring in a discipline within the College of Communication and Fine Arts. It recognizes the graduating student with the highest grade point average. Dean’s Creative Achievement Award is based on outstanding creative activity in the areas encompassed by the College of Communication and Fine Arts. Creative Achievement in Art is awarded annually by the Art Department for outstanding creative achievement in art to a senior majoring in Art. A cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 is required. “Best of Show Award" Juried Student Exhibition is awarded annually to the student whose work is judged “Best of Show” in the Annual Juried Student Exhibition. Thesis Award in Art History is presented in recognition of an outstanding masters thesis in Art History. Art History Graduate Award is presented annually to a graduate student for outstanding initiative and research. Art History Undergraduate Award is presented annually to an undergraduate student for outstanding work in Art History. Society of Professional Journalists , Memphis Chapter, annually presents a certificate of achievement and a cash award to the student chosen as outstanding in the field of Journalism. Society of Professional Journalists, Sigma Delta Chi Mark Of Excellence Awards , Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, West Tennessee Region, annually presents first place awards for Best TV Broadcasting, Best Editorial Cartoon, Best Feature Article, and Best Photography Feature. Sigma Alpha Iota College Honor Award is an award based on musicianship, scholarship, and general contribution to the collegiate chapter. Sigma Alpha Iota Honor Certificate is presented annually to the graduating senior of this chapter having attained the highest academic average. Paul Eaheart Memphis Woodwind Quintet Scholarship is presented in honor of Paul Eaheart for excellence in wind performance. Lubrani Clarinet Award , in memory of Professor Frederic Lubrani, is presented for clarinet performance ability, general scholarship, service to the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music, and potential in the profession. Smit Composition Award is presented in memory of Professor Johannes Smit for excellence in composition. Hearst Awards are presented as the result of an annual national Writing, Broadcasting, and Photography competition among accredited journalism programs for work appearing in student publications. Cash prizes range from $200 to $2,000 with matching awards going to sponsoring journalism departments. Hohenberg Foundation, Inc. Dance Award is presented annually to a student pursuing a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree with a concentration in Dance. The recipient must have at least a 2.5 GPA. Art Center Supply Award is given annually to a sophomore, junior, or senior majoring in Graphic Design. Selection is based on portfolio and academic performance. Memphis-Germantown Art League Award is presented annually in the spring to an undergraduate Art major who has demonstrated exceptional artistic abilities in any discipline within the Department of Art. University Bookstore Supply Award is given annually to an undergraduate Art major. Selection is based on portfolio and academic performance. The Linn Sitler Theatre Award is presented to an outstanding Theatre student with a minimum GPA of 3.0. The Saul Brown Award is given to a Journalism major concentrating in news writing. Saul Brown retired from the Memphis Press-Scimitar in 1980 as the newspaper’s chief photographer. Selection for the award is based on talent, skill, and a student’s promise as a journalist as demonstrated by his or her articles and/or photographs. The Kappa Tau Alpha Award is given to the member of Kappa Tau Alpha Journalism honor society who has achieved the highest academic average. The MTNA Student Achievement Award is given by the Music Teachers National Association annually to a music student for excellence in studio teaching. The Raymond Lynch Oboe Award established to recognize the distinguished career of the former oboe teacher and associate dean of the College of Communication and Fine Arts, Dr. Raymond Lynch, is given annually to an outstanding oboist. The Harold Streibich Award , established in memory of Att. Harold Streibich recognizes an outstanding Music Business student. Belle Melodies Scholarship Award is sponsored by St. Mary’s Episcopal School in support of a Recording Technology student. Phi Kappa Lambda Academic Achievement Award is presented to the senior music student with the highest GPA. Excellence in Design Award is given annually to an undergraduate architecture or interior design student selected by a vote of the faculty. Nominations are submitted from each architecture and interior design studio faculty member. Excellence in Design Award is given annually to a graduate architecture student selected by a vote of the faculty. Nominations are submitted from each architecture graduate design studio faculty member. ARCC Jonathan King Medal is awarded annually to a graduating architecture or interior design student based upon nominations and a vote of the department faculty. The Architectural Research Centers Consortium offers one medal per school of architecture and design internationally. The medal acknowledges innovation, integrity, and scholarship in architectural and/or environmental design research. Alpha Rho Chi Bronze Medal is awarded to the undergraduate architecture or interior design student whose academics, leadership, and service best represent the ideals of Alpha Rho Chi, the national co-ed fraternity for architecture and the allied arts, as voted upon by the department faculty. Winners need not be a member of APX but must have completed third year undergraduate classes. Creative Achievement Award is given annually to the architecture or interior design student whose overall body of work best represents the Department of Architecture and its mission. Nominations are submitted and voted upon by the department faculty. Graduate Thesis Award is presented to a Master of Architecture student in recognition of the most outstanding graduate thesis completed during the academic year. The award is based on a vote of the department faculty. Honors Thesis Award is presented to a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Architecture or Bachelor of Fine Arts in Interior Design student in recognition of the most outstanding University Honors/Department of Architecture Honors thesis completed during the academic year. The award is based on a vote of the department faculty. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .