#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/tigerpride/tigerstoday.php
Tigers Today - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Tiger Pride School Spirit Tigers Today History &amp; Traditions Memphis Ring Legacy M Home UMAA Tiger Pride Tigers Today Tigers Today Visit The Campus Relive your college days and see all of the exciting changes that are happening at the UofM by visiting campus! Stop by to cheer on your Tigers at FedExPark , catch a show in the "Big Blue" theatre , grab a bite to eat in the Tiger Den , and stock up on your Tiger gear . Join hundreds of Tigers for Homecoming each fall. Schedule a student-led tour ( learn more here ) or download a campus map . Stop by Parking Services first to get a visitor parking pass. Not in the area? Take a virtual campus tour ! University Overview Learn everything you need to know about the University in the UofM Fact Book including our leadership, what we offer, what we have accomplished and where we are going. Athletics It's a great time to be a Tiger! The Tigers have a promising season ahead as a part of the American Athletic Conference . View the Athletics Calendar , purchase your tickets , and keep up with all the stats at gotigersgo.com . Do you have a future Tiger? Sign them up for Pouncer's Pals ! Find out about an upcoming Alumni Association True Blue Tailgate or pre-game event in your area by visiting the Go to the Game page. Admissions Be a True Blue Tiger by recruiting prospective students! Share your favorite UofM memories and refer a student to help the Office of Admissions recruit the best of the best. Career Services The UofM doesn't stop preparing you for your future just because you've graduated. As alumni, you may continue to enjoy Career Services resources including career advising, resume and cover letter critiques, mock interviews and job searching through eRecruiting. Become a part of the eRecruiting network or schedule an appointment by calling 901-678-2239. Student Life The UofM campus is bustling with activities for students year round. There is an organization or activity for every student to take part in and develop leadership skills. The Future Alumni of Memphis (FAM) is teaching students how to be good alumni. And of course students are logging plenty of hours in the library . It's a great time to be a Tiger! Campus Development The University of Memphis is ever-expanding and transforming with the additions of the University Center ; FedEx Institute of Technology ; Lambuth campus ; Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law ; Kemmons Wilson School and Holiday Inn ; Anfernee "Penny" Hardaway Hall of Fame; and Living Learning Complex . The Community Health Building is now underway. View renderings of the proposed master plan . Learn more about how you can help reach this vision. UofM Campuses Tiger Pride extends to all of the University of Memphis educational facilities. Main Campus Park Avenue Campus Lambuth Campus Millington Center Carrier Center - Collierville Speech and Hearing Center News Re-connect with YOUR University by subscribing to the University of Memphis Magazine , read college publications , and reading the latest news releases . Follow the UofM on your favorite social media site to watch videos and get important updates. Alumni News Stay connected! Update your calendar with upcoming Alumni Association events . Read our monthly e-newsletter, Memphis Matters , for news, alumni spotlights, and upcoming events. Like us on facebook , follow up on Twitter , and watch videos on YouTube . Connect with fellow alumni through our LinkedIn group. We want to know what's going on in your lives, too! Submit Class Notes to be published in the University of Memphis Magazine. Tiger Pride School Spirit Tigers Today History &amp; Traditions Memphis Ring Legacy M Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .