#http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/endowed.php
Endowed Scholarships - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Home Music Future Students Endowed Scholarships Endowed Scholarships Lily Afshar Guitar Scholarship The Lily Afshar Guitar Scholarship is available for students enrolled at the University of Memphis. Students must be a full-time student (undergraduate or graduate) enrolled in the guitar program within the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. Non-Tennessee residents and foreign students may be eligible for this scholarship. The recipient must maintain a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 and be a talented guitarist with excellent practice habits, high quality of performance, and demonstrate extreme financial need. Joe D'Gerolamo Memorial Scholarship The Joe D'Gerolamo Memorial Scholarship Fund is awarded to a student studying jazz in the College of Communication and Fine Arts at the University of Memphis. Candidates must demonstrate financial need as well as academic merit. Elba Gandy Memorial Scholarship The Elba Gandy Memorial Music Scholarship Fund was created to provide assistance for students studying music at the University of Memphis. This is an annual scholarship. James and Christopher Gholson Scholarship The James and Christopher Gholson Scholarship Fund is available for undergraduate and graduate students majoring in Commercial Music or Woodwinds (music education or music performance). The award recipient must meet the following criteria: must have evidence of financial need, must have evidence of musical talent and potential success, and must visit the Tutoring Office and select a self-tutor, online or office guided program that best fits their general needs and select a means of documenting reading improvement that occurred from the beginning to the end of the school year in which the scholarship was awarded. Award recipients may reapply for additional awards in subsequent years provided they are in good academic standing, having a minimum GPA of 2.5, and meet the above criteria. Applicants must write a three page essay that addresses the following: The applicant's affinity for the needs of under-represented or under-served communitiesThe importance of reading speed and comprehension and its relationship to music and academic successThe applicant's commitment to enhancing their reading speed and comprehension. Herbert Herman Memorial Scholarship The Herbert Hermann Scholarship Fund is available for incoming freshmen and current students of the University of Memphis. Current students must possess a 3.0 grade point average and incoming freshman must have received a 20 on his/her ACT score. Financial need may be considered. John G. Hughes Music Scholarship The John G. Hughes Scholarship is available for students enrolled at the University of Memphis. Applicants must be a full or part time freshman, sophomore, junior, or senior of the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. Preference will be given to students studying organ. Recipients must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0. A need for financial assistance is not required and this scholarship is renewable to the recipient for a maximum of four years. Robert Kelley Memorial Scholarship The Robert Kelley Memorial Scholarship award is given to an enrolled student at the Music Business Division of the Scheidt School of Music at the University of Memphis. The recipients must have been in the top 20% of their graduating class or have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 and be pursuing a degree in the music business. This scholarship may be renewed for a total of four years if all criteria continue to be met or at the discretion of the selection committee. Douglas C. Lemmon Memorial Scholarship The Douglas C. Lemmon Scholarship is available to a full-time student enrolled at the University of Memphis and a study of trombone within the Department of Music. The recipient must be in academic good standing and may receive this award for a maximum of four years if eligibility requirements are met. Jerry Lee Lewis Endowed Scholarship The Jerry Lee Lewis Endowed Scholarship Fund is available for students enrolled at the University of Memphis and pursuing a Bachelor of Music degree within the College of Communication and Fine Arts and be in good academic standing. Lubriani Clarinet Award Established in memory of Frederic Lubrani, professor of clarinet at the University of Memphis, this award honors an outstanding clarinetist or clarinetists. Dr. Barbara D. Mashburn Choral Scholarship The Dr. Barbara D. Mashburn Choral Music Education Scholarship is available to an undergraduate student enrolled at the University of Memphis and the Music Education Choral Degree program of the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. In addition, the recipients must demonstrate commitment to utilizing his/her talents and training as a music educator. Ethel T. Maxwell Voice Scholarship The Ethel Taylor Maxwell Voice Scholarship is available for incoming freshmen and current students of the University of Memphis. Incoming freshmen shall have been in the upper quarter of their high school class and have demonstrated voice talent. Emphasis will be placed on voice talent. Dr. Sidney J. McKay Award The Dr. Sidney J. McKay Fellowship is awarded to a full-time graduate student pursuing a degree with a focus in wind conducting or music education with the intent to become an instrumental music educator. Candidates must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25 at the time of graduation. Local, out of state, and foreign students are eligible for this award. Preference will be given to a student who demonstrates financial need. Berl Olswanger Scholarship The Memphis Gridiron Show, Inc. honors the late Berl Olswanger by rewarding an undergraduate student with a scholarship in the fall semester and selection is made in the spring. To be eligible for the award, students must be an undergraduate in the College of Communication and Fine Arts with interest in music and have a minimum GPA of 2.5. Preference is given to a music major. Sam Phillips Scholarship The Sam Phillips Endowed Scholarship Fund is awarded to a student studying music or music engineering in the College of Communication and Fine Arts at the University of Memphis. Candidates shall have demonstrated financial need as well as exceptional talent. Elvis Presley Endowed Scholarship The Elvis Presley Endowed Scholarship Fund is available to a student in the College of Communication and Fine Arts at the University of Memphis. Applicants shall demonstrate financial need and academic merit. Presser Foundation Scholarship The Presser Scholarship is available for students enrolled at the University of Memphis. The award will be made to an outstanding music major, at or after the end of the student's junior year. Recipients of this award are known as a Presser Scholar. Charlie Rich Scholarship The Charlie Rich Endowed Scholarship is available to a student studying music in the College of Communication and Fine Arts at the University of Memphis. Candidates for this scholarship shall have demonstrated financial need as well as academic merit. Charles Riecker Memorial Fund The Charles Riecker Memorial Fund shall be given to graduate vocal students in the opera program. The selection is made by the Voice and Opera faculty at the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music from both current and incoming graduate students. Clement Santi Memorial Music Scholarship The Clement Santi Memorial Music Scholarship is given to deserving full-time students in music and the dramatic arts at the University of Memphis. Santi Family Legacy Scholarship The Santi Family Legacy Scholarship is given to an enrolled student at the University of Memphis and pursuing a degree majoring in music with a concentration in performance in the area of voice with preference given to a student participating in opera. Recipients must have a minimum ACT score of 23, live in the Mid-South region, and be a proven leader in the community. In order to retain this scholarship, recipients must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 and participate in fifteen hours of community service each semester. This award can be awarded for a maximum of four consecutive years if all criteria continue to be met. Smit Music Composition Award This award is given in memory of Johannes Smit, professor of composition at the University of Memphis. It recognizes an outstanding composition student. SunTrust Scholarship Fund The SunTrust Scholars Program is given to enrolled full-time undergraduate and graduate students at the University of Memphis. Undergraduate requirements: Must be a resident of Shelby County, Tennessee or reside within 30 miles of Shelby County, Tennessee, must declare Music major, must be enrolled as a full-time student and must have a 25 or higher on ACT and a 3.0 GPA. Graduate requirements: Master's candidates enrolled in the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music having graduated in high standing with an undergraduate degree, full-time students must maintain at least 12 graduate credit hours, and renewal of the SunTrust Graduate Music Scholarship requires maintaining a cumulative 3.5 GPA and carrying a minimum of 12 credit hours for full time students. Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .