#http://www.memphis.edu/ifti/news/
News - IFTI - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute About The Academy CAFTP Research Education Outreach News News Memphis Railroad Map IFTI in the News Newsletter Archive Home IFTI News IFTI News- Read the Latest! Click Here for the June 2015 IFTI Newsletter To join our newsletter distribution list, please send your e-mail and contact information to meredith.powers@memphis.edu . Our newsletter is distributed every other month. News Highlights 6.30.15 IFTI Staff Attend the 2015 Council of University Transportation Centers (CUTC) Summer Meeting at Rutgers The Center for Advanced Infrastructure and Transportation (CAIT) welcomed IFTI Interim Director, Dan Pallme, and IFTI Associate Director, Sean Ellis, and other CUTC members to Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, for the CUTC Summer Meeting in June 2015. Pallme led a breakout session on behalf of the Southeast Transportation Workforce Center (SETWC) as one of the five regional lead centers on workforce development. Additional highlights of the conference included the National Network for the Transportation Workforce Directors' Meeting and highlights from successful UTC grantees from across the country. 4.16.15 TDOT Commissioner John Schroer Spends Day on Campus as IFTI's Executive in Residence Commissioner Schroer kicked off his day as Executive in Residence with a morning leadership discussion focused on learning from personal failures. About 60 students attended and represented various academic departments including political science, engineering, and economics. The Commissioner also spent time one-on-one with students from various academic disciplines. He also met with Dean Rick Sweigard of the Herff College of Engineering and UofM President M.David Rudd. The Commissioner's day concluded with an engineering research update from Dr. Golias of the civil engineering department and a brief Q &amp; A with faculty and students from the civil engineering department. 3.19.15 Choosing Transportation Summit a Success! The Southeast Transportation Workforce Center hosted a regional conference titled " Choosing Transportation: Attracting Women to the Profession" on Thursday, March 19, preceded by the second annual Blue Pump Gala hosted by the Memphis-area Society of Female Transportation Professionals (SFTP) on Wednesday, March 18. Click here for photos of the Gala. The Honorable Susan L. Kurland, Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs with the U.S. Department of Transportation , and Elise L. Jordan, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer with FedEx Express , delivered keynote addresses during the conference, as well as participated in the conference's executive panel session with other leading ladies in the transportation industry. 2.15.15 Pallme Appointed to the Executive Committee of Mayor Wharton's Blue Stream Task Force Dan Pallme was recently appointed to the Executive Committee of the Blue Stream Task Force. He is one of 14 community leaders chosen for this prestigious committee. Pallme's peers on this committee will include Memphis Mayor A.C. Wharton, University of Memphis President M. David Rudd, and Phil Trenary, President and CEO of the Greater Memphis Chamber. Newly created by Memphis Mayor A.C. Wharton, the Blue Stream Task Force is made up of 45 community, civic and industry leaders along with subject matter experts selected to begin collaboration on the development of a comprehensive long range water resource strategy for the Memphis Metropolitan area. The focus of this multi-discipline Task Force is to determine ways to leverage and stimulate metro water assets in order to create jobs, enhance quality of life, and promote a conduit for commerce and travel by water. Task Force members will be organized according to their areas of expertise and interest into three core Advisory Committees for Transportation, Economic Development, and Environment. Pallme will head the Transportation Committee. The economic footprint of the Mississippi River is one of the largest in the nation.The Mississippi River supports over 1 million jobs directly, $84 billion in manufacturing, $1.2 billion in recreational activity; additionally, 62 percent of U.S. grain output and 40 percent of all agricultural goods as a whole move on the River. Our local rivers and streams also provide added value for wildlife habitat and recreation . 2.10.15 Lipinski Presents to Auburn University's Annual Transportation Conference Dr. Marty Lipinski was a featured presenter at the 58th Annual Transportation Conference presented by the Samuel Ginn College of Engineering at Auburn University. His presentation was titeld Economic Development &amp; Growth of Intermodal Facilities, The conference is held each February for federal and state highway personnel, road building contractors, general contractors, heavy construction contractors, utility contractors, county engineers, consulting engineers, construction material vendors, researchers, professional society representatives, and university faculty members. It provides an opportunity for these individuals to share innovative advances in transportation planning, engineering design, and construction. The conference presents technical presentations to provide a forum for the exchange of ideas within the highway engineering and construction professions. 10.14.14 IFTI Designated as Southeast Transportation Workforce Development Center (SETWC) IFTI received a four-year grant from the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) to host the Southeast Transportation Workforce Development Center (SETWC) . The Center will serve a 12-state region in the southeastern US and Puerto Rico, and is part of the National Network for Transportation Workforce. While the Center addresses the broad goals of transportation workforce development throughout the region, it also focuses on the following areas of national expertise: women in transportation, freight (rail, trucking, warehousing, and logistics), and veterans' transition into the transportation workforce. News Memphis Railroad Map IFTI in the News Newsletter Archive Contact IFTI Railroad Map Tool Support IFTI Events Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .