#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/provost/
Office of the Provost - Academic Affairs - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Academic Affairs About Provost Resources Academic Affairs Units Provost CHC Partnership Faculty Spotlight Chairs of Excellence University Professorships Awards Program About Awards Programs Academic Affairs Nominations Academic Affairs Winners Faculty Awards Faculty Award Winners Home Academic Affairs Provost Office of the Provost The Provost is the chief academic officer of the University of Memphis. Dr. Karen Weddle-West became Provost in the Spring of 2015 after serving as Interim Provost starting during the Summer of 2014. She is also the Director of Diversity Initiatives at the University of Memphis in addition to serving on numerous national and international boards and committees, including serving as the Chair of the GRE Board. Notable accomplishments during her service as Vice Provost for Graduate Programs/Dean of the Graduate School and faculty member in Educational Psychology and Research include the oversight and launching of 60 new graduate programs and chairing and serving on more than 100 dissertation committees. Additional honors she received include a nomination by the President to participate in The ACE Millennium Leadership Initiative, the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Human Rights Award at the University of Memphis, the 2014 Education Honoree of the University's NAACP Freedom Ball and Mahogany Awards, the Earl Crader Award and the Igniting Excitement Award for Academic Excellence. Throughout her career, she has put students and their needs first in everything she does. She is innovative and inclusive in how she approaches solutions. Her depth and breadth of knowledge, expertise and understanding of our academic programs across campus is unparalleled. Over the years, she has collaborated with other institutions and professional organizations to secure more than $500,000 to support student access, completion, inclusiveness and enhancing diversity in the professoriate. Dr. Weddle-West was awarded the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in 1977 and 1982 respectively from The University of Tennessee. She served as a college professor at Tennessee State University from 1981-86 and The Ohio State University from 1986-89. In 2003, she was selected as Vice Provost for Graduate Programs at the University of Memphis following a successful tenure as Associate Dean for Graduate Studies in the College of Education and a tenured Associate professor in Educational Psychology and Research where she won numerous honors and awards for excellence in teaching, research and service. Dr. Weddle-West has garnered a distinguished record of scholarship nationally and internationally in invited presentations, publications, and professional service focused on graduate education, graduate student research and diversity. She currently serves as Chair of the national Council of Graduate Schools' Diversity and Inclusion Committee and received the prestigious Council of Graduate Schools (CGS)/Peterson's Award in 2006 for Innovation in Promoting an Inclusive Graduate Community. She was honored to be invited by the CGS to speak at the Library of Congress on Broadening Participation in Graduate Education during the 2009 CGS Legislative Forum. She is Chair-Elect of the GRE Board, member of the GRE Research Committee, and Chair of the GRE Finance Committee. She also served on to the TOEFL Board. She was elected President of the Tennessee Council of Graduate Schools in 2006 and led the initiative for the Governor's Proclamation of Graduate Education Week in Tennessee. Provost CHC Partnership Faculty Spotlight Chairs of Excellence University Professorships Awards Program About Awards Programs Academic Affairs Nominations Academic Affairs Winners Faculty Awards Faculty Award Winners Provost's Blog Check out some of the latest Academic Affairs news Academic Affairs Award Nominations Help us recognize the hard work and dedication of the University's staff Faudree Professorship Help the University retain its best and brightest faculty by donating today Critical Conversations Join the conversation today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .