#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies/UM1786.htm
UM1786 - Sexual Misconduct and Domestic Violence Policy - The University of Memphis The University of Memphis Sexual Misconduct and Domestic Violence Policy POLICIES Issued:&nbsp September 23, 2015 Responsible Official:&nbsp President Responsible Office:&nbsp Office for Institutional Equity Purpose &nbsp This policy is adopted by the University of Memphis specifically to address sexual misconduct which includes the following offenses: dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking; and, to establish procedures for responding to incidents of sexual misconduct. Sexual misconduct is a form of sex discrimination prohibited by Title IX and the University of Memphis. The University is committed to eliminating any and all acts of sexual misconduct and discrimination on its campus. Any allegation of sexual misconduct as defined herein will be investigated and adjudicated according to this policy and in compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 485(f) of the HEA, as amended by Section 304 of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, the regulations implementing these Acts found at 34 CFR &sect; 668.41, &sect;668.46, and Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 668. &nbsp These procedures are available for use by the following individuals and may apply to incidents occurring on or off campus: 1. Any employee or student who has been a victim of sexual misconduct, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity/expression; 2. Any former employee or student who has been a victim of sexual misconduct if the conduct took place during the time of employment or enrollment at the University of Memphis and the conduct has a reasonable connection to the institution; 3. Any employee or student who has knowledge of an act of sexual misconduct against another employee or student in order to report such misconduct; and, 4. All third parties with whom the University has an educational or business relationship who have been a victim of sexual misconduct when the conduct has a reasonable connection to the University. Geographical Scope.This policy applies to employees and non-employee third parties who are alleged to have violated this policy regardless of the location of the incident. The University also has the discretion to discipline a student for an act that occurs off University-controlled property if the conduct adversely affects the interests of the University, including, but not limited to, conduct which: (a) Occurs in connection with a University-affiliated activity, including, but not limited to, an overseas study program or a clinical, field, internship, or in-service experience;(b) Involves another member of the University community; or (c) Threatens, or indicates that the student may pose a threat to, the health or safety of him/herself or others or the security of any person&rsquo;s property, including, but not limited to, alcohol-related offenses, drug-related offenses, arson, battery, fraud, hazing, participation in group violence, rape, sexual assault or misconduct, stalking, and theft. Incidents that do not rise to the level of sexual misconduct may still be prohibited by other University or Tennessee Board of Regents policies. The University reserves the right to determine the appropriate policy under which to investigate complaints. &nbsp RETALIATION University of Memphis faculty, employees and students are strictly prohibited from retaliating, intimidating, threatening, coercing, or otherwise discriminating against any individual for exercising their rights or responsibilities under any provision of this policy. Retaliation will result in disciplinary measures, up to and including separation from the University. Anyone who believes they have been retaliated against because they have exercised their rights under this policy should immediately make a report to the Title IX Coordinator or the Office of Legal Counsel. Definitions Campus Security Authority An official of an institution who has significant responsibility for student and campus activities, including, but not limited to, student housing, student discipline, and campus judicial proceedings. Complainant The person who asserts that he/she has been subjected to sexual misconduct or upon whose behalf a third party has so indicated. Consent An informed decision, freely given, made through mutually understandable words or actions that indicate a willingness to participate in mutually agreed upon sexual activity. Consent cannot be given by an individual who is asleep, unconscious, or mentally or physically incapacitated, either through the effect of drugs or alcohol or for any other reason, or is under duress, threat, coercion, or force. Past consent does not imply past or future consent. Dating Violence Violence against a person when the complainant and respondent are dating, or who have dated, or who have or had a sexual relationship. &ldquo;Dating&rdquo; and &ldquo;dated&rdquo; do not include fraternization between two (2) individuals solely in a business or non-romantic social context. Violence includes, but is not necessarily limited to: 1. Inflicting, or attempting to inflict, physical injury on the complainant by other than accidental means; 2. Placing the complainant in fear of physical harm; 3. Physical restraint; 4. Malicious damage to the personal property of the complainant, including inflicting, or attempting to inflict, physical injury on any animal owned, possessed, leased, kept, or held by the complainant; 5. Placing a complainant in fear of physical harm to any animal owned, possessed, leased, kept, or held by the complainant. Domestic Violence 1. Violence against a person when the complainant and respondent: a. Are current or former spouses; b. Live or have lived together as a spouse or intimate partner; c. Are related by blood or adoption; d. Are related or were formally related by marriage; or, e. Are adult or minor children of a person in a relationship described above. 2. Violence includes, but is not necessarily limited to: a. Inflicting, or attempting to inflict, physical injury on the complainant by other than accidental means; b. Placing the complainant in fear of physical harm; c. Physical restraint; d. Malicious damage to the personal property of the complainant, including inflicting, or attempting to inflict, physical injury on any animal owned, possessed, leased, kept, or held by the complainant; or, e. Placing the complainant in fear of physical harm to any animal owned, possessed, leased, kept, or held by the complainant. Matters involving non-intimate individuals, i.e. dormitory roommates who live together may, at the discretion of the University, be addressed by the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities. Reporter A person who communicates a concern to a Mandatory Reporter regarding the occurrence of sexual misconduct. A reporter need not be a complainant. Respondent The person who has been accused of engaging in sexual misconduct. Mandatory Reporter A University employee who has the authority to redress sexual misconduct, who has the duty to report incidents of sexual misconduct, or whom a student could reasonably believe has this authority or duty. For purposes of this policy, the employees in the following list are specifically designated as Mandatory Reporters: (1) President, Senior Vice President, Provost, Vice Presidents, Associate Vice Presidents, Assistant Vice Presidents; (2) Deans, Associate Deans, Assistant Deans, Directors, Associate Directors, Assistant Directors, Department Chairs/Heads; (3) Faculty and graduate teaching assistants; (4) Academic advisors; (5) Advisors for student organizations including volunteers; (6) Residence Hall/Housing staff including resident assistants; (7) Athletic coaches and trainers; (8) Employees who occupy a supervisory or management position, i.e. an employee who has the authority to hire, transfer, suspend, discharge or discipline employees or will have their recommendations given significant import; (9) Title IX Coordinator, Title IX Deputy Coordinators, and designees; (10) University Police; and, (11) Campus Security Authorities. Sexual Assault Nonconsensual sexual contact with the complainant by the respondent, or the respondent by the complainant when force or coercion is used to accomplish the act, the sexual contact is accomplished without consent of the complainant, and the respondent knows or has reason to know at the time of the contact that the complainant did not or could not consent. &ldquo;Sexual contact&rdquo; includes, but is not limited to, the intentional touching of the complainant&rsquo;s, the respondent&rsquo;s, or any other person&rsquo;s intimate parts, or the intentional touching of the clothing covering the immediate area of the complainant&rsquo;s, the respondent&rsquo;s, or any other person&rsquo;s intimate parts, if that intentional touching can be reasonably construed as being for the purpose of sexual arousal or gratification. Sexual Misconduct For the purposes of this policy, &ldquo;sexual misconduct&rdquo; is defined as dating violence, domestic violence, stalking, and sexual assault. It may also include actions which would typically include sexual harassment. Stalking A willful course of conduct involving repeated or continuing harassment of another individual that would cause a reasonable person to feel terrorized, frightened, intimidated, threatened, harassed, or molested, and that actually causes the complainant to feel terrorized, frightened, intimidated, threatened, harassed, or molested. &ldquo;Harassment&rdquo; means conduct directed toward the complainant that includes, but is not limited to, repeated or continuing unconsented contact that would cause a reasonable person to suffer emotional distress, and that actually causes the complainant to suffer emotional distress. Harassment does not include constitutionally protected activity or conduct that serves a legitimate purpose. Title IX Coordinator The Title IX Coordinator receives annual training on topics related to responding to or investigating allegations of sexual misconduct and is the University official responsible for overseeing the institution&rsquo;s response to sexual misconduct reports and complaints, and for addressing any patterns or systemic issuess identified by such reports and complaints. This official oversees and coordinates the University&rsquo;s educational programs and training efforts for the University community with regard to sexual misconduct. The Title IX Coordinator conducts or oversees investigations and has the authority to implement all interim measures deemed appropriate. The Title IX Coordinator may delegate investigatory responsibility to Deputy Title IX Coordinators who are also authorized to implement appropriate interim measures. Procedures THE IMPORTANCE OF CONSENT/IMPACT OF ALCOHOL AND/OR DRUGS Although defined above, it is important for all to understand the significance of consent. Consent is an affirmative decision to engage in mutually acceptable sexual activity given by clear actions or words. It is an informed decision made freely and actively by all parties. Relying solely upon nonverbal communication can lead to miscommunication. For example, silence or an absence of resistance does not imply consent. It is important not to make assumptions; if confusion or ambiguity on the issue of consent arises anytime during a sexual interaction, it is essential that each participant stops and clarifies, verbally, willingness to continue. Parties should understand that consent may not be inferred from silence, passivity, or lack of active resistance alone. Furthermore, a current or previous dating or sexual relationship is not sufficient to constitute consent, and consent to one form of sexual activity does not imply consent to other forms of sexual activity. Consent can be withdrawn at any time. Being intoxicated does not diminish one&rsquo;s responsibility to obtain consent. The use of alcohol or other drugs can have unintended consequences. Alcohol or other drugs can lower inhibitions and create an atmosphere of confusion over whether consent is freely and effectively given. The perspective of a reasonable person similarly situated to the complainant and in consideration of the context of the behavior will be the basis for determining whether one should have known about the impact of the use of alcohol or drugs on another&rsquo;s ability to give consent. Being intoxicated or high is never an excuse for sexual misconduct. CONSENSUAL RELATIONSHIPS The prior existence of a consensual relationship does not preclude a complainant from filing a complaint alleging a violation of this policy. Circumstances change, and conduct that was previously welcome may become unwelcome. Even when both parties have consented at the outset to a romantic or sexual involvement, this past consent may not remove grounds for a later charge of a violation of policies. For more information regarding the University&rsquo;s position on consensual relationships refer to Conflict of Interest Policy and Equal Employment Opportunity, Affirmative Action, Discrimination and Nepotism . IMMEDIATE ASSISTANCE AND PRESERVATION OF EVIDENCE Safety. The University recognizes that deciding whether or not to report sexual misconduct (to the University and/or to the police) and deciding how to proceed if and when a report has been filed (including deciding whether and when to pursue a University complaint) can be a decision-making process that unfolds over time. Whatever steps a complainant ultimately decides to take, in the immediate aftermath of a sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence or similar events, the most important thing is for the complainant to get to a safe place. Seeking medical attention. When a feeling of safety has been achieved, the complainant should seek medical attention, regardless of his or her decision to report the crime to the police. It is very important for the complainant of sexual assault to seek medical attention immediately. Such screening, at the option of the complainant, may include screening for sexually transmitted diseases/pregnancy/date rape drugs, emergency contraception, and psychological comfort and counseling and treatment for any physical injuries. A complainant has the right to accept or decline any or all parts of a medical exam. However, critical evidence may be lost or missed if not collected or analyzed. Physical evidence. Valuable physical evidence can be obtained from the complainant and the complainant&rsquo;s clothing. A complainant should make every effort to save anything that might contain the offender&rsquo;s DNA. Therefore, a complainant should not: Bathe or shower; Wash his/her hands; Brush his/her teeth; Use the restroom; Change clothes; Comb hair; Clean up the area where the incident took place; or &middot;Move anything the offender may have touched Even if the complainant has not yet decided to report the crime, receiving a forensic medical exam and keeping the evidence safe from damage will improve the chances that the police can access and test the stored evidence at a later date should the complainant decide to prosecute. Other evidence. Complainants of sexual misconduct are encouraged to preserve verbal, written and photographic evidence by saving notes, emails, text messages, instant messages, social networking pages, other communications, pictures, logs or other copies of documents that might be useful to investigators. REPORTING SEXUAL MISCONDUCT The University of Memphis is committed to providing a variety of accessible means to encourage complainants to report incidents of sexual misconduct. In addition to making a report to the Responsible Parties as defined in the policy, a complaint can be filed directly with the following University offices: Title IX Coordinator Office of Institutional Equity 156 Administration Building (901) 678-2713 Office of Student Conduct 359 University Center (901) 678-2298 studentconduct@memphis.edu University of Memphis Police Services 109 Zach Curlin St. 678-4357 police@memphis.edu Members of the University community may also find information about the University&rsquo;s policies and procedures related to sexual misconduct in the following University Offices: Vice President for Student Affairs 235 Administration Building (901) 678-2114 student@memphis.edu Dean of Students Office 359 University Center (901) 678-2187 Human Resources 171 Administration Building (901) 678-3573 ALL MANDATORY REPORTERS, AS DEFINED IN THIS POLICY, HAVE A DUTY AND RESPONSIBILITY TO REPORT ANY INCIDENT OF SEXUAL MISCONDUCT THAT THEY RECEIVE OR OF WHICH THEY BECOME AWARE TO THE OFFICE FOR INSTITUTIONAL EQUITY. Even those who are not obligated by this policy, are strongly encouraged to report information regarding any incident of sexual misconduct to the Title IX Coordinator or a Responsible Party. Public awareness events or other forums, including social media and class discussions, in which students disclose incidents of sexual misconduct are not considered reports or notice to the University of sexual misconduct for purposes of triggering its obligation to investigate any particular incident(s). DISCIPLINARY IMMUNITY FOR STUDENT COMPLAINANTS AND WITNESSES Anyone who is under the influence of alcohol or drugs during a sexual misconduct incident should not be reluctant to seek assistance for fear of being sanctioned. The Office of Student Conduct will generally not pursue disciplinary violations against a student (or against a witness) for his or her improper use of alcohol or drugs (e.g. underage drinking) if the student is making a good faith report of sexual misconduct. This practice only applies to amnesty from violations of the University&rsquo;s Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities [ ]. It does not grant amnesty for criminal, civil, or legal consequences for violations of federal, state, or local law. Further, excluded from this grant of immunity are all students accused of encouraging or voluntarily participating in the sexual misconduct incident. Employee actions will be evaluated on a case by case basis to determine whether any amnesty will be granted. CONFIDENTIALITY The University of Memphis encourages complainants to talk to somebody, particularly a Mandatory Reporter, about what happened so they can get the support they need and so that the University can respond appropriately. Though the University of Memphis will keep reports as confidential as possible, it cannot guarantee the confidentiality of every report or complaint. The provisions below detail the confidentiality options available to individuals. Confidential Resources . The following resources hold statutorily protected confidentiality that prohibits the release of an individual&rsquo;s information without that individual&rsquo;s express consent (except under limited circumstances that pose an imminent danger to the individual or to others.): &middot;Reports to professional licensed counselors (including the University&rsquo;s Counseling Center) or to professional medical healthcare providers (including the University&rsquo;s Student Health Center) are confidential to the extent allowed by law. Counselors and doctors will maintain confidentiality of any such reports unless required by law or court order to disclose information. For example, Tennessee&rsquo;s mandatory reporting law related to abuse of minors, imminent harm to others, or subpoenas for testimony may require disclosure of all information received. Counselors and doctors affiliated with the University of Memphis may assist the complainant in receiving other necessary protection and support, such as victim advocacy, academic support or accommodations, disability, health or mental health services, and changes to living, working or course schedules. In some cases, providing requested assistance might require the counselor or doctor to reveal identifying information to other individuals. Written permission from the complainant to reveal the minimum information necessary to arrange requested assistance will be obtained prior to disclosure. Any complainant who speaks to a counselor or doctor and chooses not to disclose the sexual misconduct or authorize a report to be made on their behalf must understand that a request for confidentiality may prevent the University from pursuing disciplinary action against the alleged respondent(s). Non-confidential reports. Reports to a Mandatory Reporter will not be considered confidential but will be handled in as private a manner as possible. Even if a complainant wants to make a report, but maintain confidentiality, no guarantee of confidentiality can be made. The University will, however, use its best efforts to restrict access to information when allowable. Information reported to a Mandatory Reporter will be shared only with people associated with handling the University&rsquo;s response to the report. All reports of sexual misconduct made to University Police will be referred to the Title IX Coordinator for review and investigation even if the complainant declines to pursue criminal charges. The University shall not share personally identifiable information with law enforcement without the complainant&rsquo;s consent, or unless the complainant has also reported the incident to law enforcement. Parallel investigations with local law enforcement . Sexual misconduct may be criminal in nature, and a complainant may choose to file a report with law enforcement. Unless the complainant of a sexual assault does not consent to the reporting of an offense, University Police shall immediately notify the Memphis Police Department of a report from the complainant alleging that any degree of rape has occurred on University property. In the case of an alleged rape, University Police will lead the investigation and will cooperate in every respect with the investigation conducted by the Memphis Police Department. T.C.A. &sect; 49-7-129. If the complainant does not consent to the reporting, the University will not report the offense to the Memphis Police Department. Requests for Confidentiality. If a complainant discloses an incident to a Mandatory Reporter but wishes to maintain confidentiality, or requests that no investigation into a particular incident be conducted or disciplinary action taken, the University will weigh that request against its obligation to provide a safe, non-discriminatory environment for all students, including the complainant. However, if the University honors the request for confidentiality, the complainant should understand that the University&rsquo;s ability to meaningfully investigate the incident and pursue disciplinary action against the alleged respondent(s) may be limited. The Title IX Coordinator will evaluate requests for confidentiality once a Mandatory Reporter is on notice of alleged sexual misconduct. When weighing a complainant&rsquo;s request for confidentiality or that no investigation or discipline be pursued, the Title IX Coordinator will consider a range of factors, including the increased risk that the alleged respondent could commit additional acts of sexual or other misconduct; whether there have been other sexual misconduct complaints about the same alleged respondent; whether the alleged respondent has a history of arrests or records from a prior school indicating a history of misconduct; whether the alleged respondent threatened further sexual misconduct or other misconduct against the complainant or others; whether the sexual misconduct was committed by multiple perpetrators; whether the sexual misconduct was perpetrated with a weapon; whether the complainant is a minor; whether the University possesses other means to obtain relevant evidence of the alleged sexual misconduct; or whether the complainant&rsquo;s report reveals a pattern of perpetration at a given location or by a particular group. The presence of one or more of these factors could lead the University to investigate and, if appropriate, pursue disciplinary actions. If none or only a limited number of these factors is present, the University will make best efforts to respect the complainant&rsquo;s request for confidentiality. If the University determines that it cannot maintain a complainant&rsquo;s confidentiality, the Title IX Coordinator will inform the complainant prior to starting an investigation and will, to the extent possible, only share information with people responsible for handling the University&rsquo;s response. A complainant will not be required to participate in any investigation or disciplinary proceeding. COMPLAINT RESOLUTION Training of University parties. All University employees or designees involved in the investigation or adjudication of alleged violations of this policy will receive annual training on issues related to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking and the process for conducting an investigation and hearing that protects the safety of complainants and promotes accountability of members of the University community. Time Frames. All time frames expressed in this policy are meant to be guidelines rather than rigid requirements. Every reasonable effort shall be made to conclude the investigation and resolve the complaint within sixty (60) calendar days following receipt of the complaint. Within this sixty (60) day time frame, it is expected that the Investigator will conclude the investigation, prepare a written report and finding, and notify the parties in writing of the determination. This timeframe does not include any appeal as the result of a request by either party. If an appeal hearing is requested, every reasonable effort shall be made to conclude the appeal process within thirty (30) days following the University&rsquo;s receipt of the appeal request. If the Investigator or Hearing Officer determines that additional time is needed, both parties shall be notified in writing of the delay, the anticipated date that the investigation or hearing will be concluded, and the reasons for such delay. If either party determines that additional time is needed, that party shall request such in writing to either the Investigator (if no initial determination has been made) or Hearing Officer (if a request for hearing has been received by the institution). The written request for additional time shall include the reasons for the requested delay and the number of additional days needed. The Investigator or Hearing Officer shall make every reasonable effort to respond to the request within two (2) business days following receipt of the request and shall notify both parties in writing as to whether or not the request for additional time is granted. Information for Complainants and Respondents. All proceedings will include a prompt, fair, and impartial investigation and result. Complainants and respondents will be treated with respect before, during, and after the conclusion of the process. The University shall provide the respondent and complainant equitable rights during the investigative and institutional hearing processes as further described in this policy. Advisors. The complainant and respondent shall be provided with the same opportunities to have an advisor, of their choosing, present during any proceeding at which their presence is required such as meetings with staff, the Investigator, or hearings. The advisor&rsquo;s role in any meeting or hearing is limited to quietly conferring with the complainant or respondent through written correspondence or whisper. The advisor may not address other participants, witnesses ofr the hearing officer. Notifications. The complainant and respondent will be simultaneously notified in writing of the result of the investigation, the institutional hearing, and any disciplinary matters, unless the complainant or respondent requests not to be informed of this information; the procedures for appeal by the respondent or the complainant of the result of the disciplinary proceeding; any change to the result of the disciplinary matter (appeal decisions); and when such results become final. Meeting/Information Access. The complainant and the respondent shall be timely notified of all meetings which they are allowed or requested to attend and will be provided with timely access to any information that will be used during any disciplinary proceeding; Conflict of Interest. All investigation, hearing, and disciplinary actions shall be conducted by officials who do not have a conflict of interest or bias for/ against the complainant or the respondent. Both the complainant and respondent may object to the objectivity of any University official involved in the resolution of the complaint by submitting written notice to the University&rsquo;s Title IX Coordinator. It will be the responsibility of the Title IX Coordinator to determine if there is evidence that suggests that the concern is merited. In cases where the objectivity of the Title IX Coordinator is questioned, the complaint may be submitted to the University&rsquo;s Office of Legal Counsel to determine if there is evidence to suggest that the concern is merited. If evidence of bias is found, the Title IX Coordinator (or Legal Counsel when the Title IX Coordinator is the concerned party) will identify a suitable alternative University official to serve. Both complainant and respondent will be informed of any such actions. Interim Measures/Accommodations. In situations that require immediate action to address safety or other concerns, the University will take any reasonable administrative action, through interim measures, that is appropriate. Interim measures may be applied to one, both, or multiple parties associated with the complaint. In such situations, the Investigator is responsible for implementing the interim measure(s) after consultation with the Title IX Coordinator and Legal Counsel. Complainants may also request interim measures as an accommodation. Examples of such interim actions include, but are not limited to: Restrictions on contact between the complainant and the respondent; Exclusion from areas of campus; Providing an escort to ensure that the complainant can move safely between classes, meeting and activities; Ensuring that the complainant and respondent do not attend the same classes or other necessary appearances; Moving the complainant or respondent to a different residence hall; Providing counseling services; Providing medical services; Providing academic support services such as tutoring; Arranging for the complainant to re-take a course or withdraw from a class without penalty, including ensuring that any changes do not adversely affect the complainant&rsquo;s academic record. Student respondents may be placed on Interim Suspension under the appropriate circumstances pending the outcome of the investigation. [See University procedures involving Interim Suspension at: In appropriate circumstances and consistent with University Human Resource policies, employee respondents may be placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of the matter. Investigation Procedures. Because every case is different, the University will tailor each investigation to the specific facts of the case, which may include some or all of the following steps: Complaints shall preferably be made by a written statement. This statement should include the circumstances giving rise to the complaint, the dates of the alleged occurrences, and names and contact information of any witnesses. However, complaints made anonymously or by a third party will also be investigated to the extent possible. If, after consultation with Legal Counsel, the Title IX Coordinator determines that the complaint contains an allegation of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking, the Title IX Coordinator may appoint a qualified, sufficiently trained person to investigate the allegations made in the complaint. The investigation shall include interviews with both the complainant and respondent, unless either declines an in-person interview. The investigation shall also include interviews with relevant witnesses identified by the complainant and respondent or any other relevant witness made known to the Investigator. The investigation shall also include the gathering and review of any documentary, electronic, physical, or other type of relevant evidence. It is the responsibility of the Investigator to weigh the credibility of all individuals interviewed and to determine the weight to be given to information received during the course of the investigation. The Investigator shall not consider any evidence about the complainant's prior sexual conduct with anyone other than the respondent. Evidence of a prior consensual dating or sexual relationship between the parties by itself does not imply consent or preclude a finding of sexual misconduct. Upon completion of the investigation, the Investigator shall draft a written report that includes the allegations made by the complainant, or reporter if the complainant declined to participate in the investigation, the response of the respondent, and a summary of the investigation. The Investigator shall make a determination as to whether or not a violation of the University&rsquo;s sexual misconduct policy has occurred. This determination shall be based on the preponderance of the evidence standard. The Investigator's determination and the justification shall be made in writing and provided simultaneously to the complainant and the respondent. The Investigator&rsquo;s written report shall also contain a notice to both parties of their right to request an appeal of this determination that a policy violation did or did not occur. Appeal of Investigator Determination. After the Investigator has rendered a determination, either party (complainant or respondent) has the right of appeal. In all appeals, the University will use a &ldquo;preponderance of the evidence&rdquo; standard and evaluate available information from the perspective of a reasonable person in the complainant&rsquo;s position and in consideration of the context of the behavior. A party who desires to appeal the determination that a policy violation did or did not occur must make their appeal, in writing, within ten (10) business days of receipt of the Investigator's decision. The appealing part(ies) must explain why he or she believes the factual information was incomplete, the analysis of the facts was incorrect, the appropriate standard was not applied, and how this would change the determination in the case. If a request is not received within ten (10) business days, the Investigator's determination is final. The appeal hearing will be held before a Hearing Officer. The University will make every effort to schedule a hearing within fifteen (15) business days from the date of appeal. There will be no formal discovery. After the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall issue a written determination, within ten (10) business days, as to whether or not a violation of this policy occurred and the justification for the decision. The complainant and respondent (regardless of which party appealed the Investigator&rsquo;s determination) shall be simultaneously notified of the Hearing Officer decision. The parties shall also be notified of their right to appeal the Hearing Officer decision to the President of the University. Appeal to the President. Either party may appeal the Hearing Officer&rsquo;s decision. If either party chooses to appeal the Hearing Officer decision, the party shall notify the Title IX Coordinator in writing of their decision to appeal within ten (10) business days of receipt of the hearing officer&rsquo;s decision. If a written request for appeal is not received within ten (10 business days, the decision of the hearing officer is final. The appeal to the President shall not involve the presentation of new evidence or testimony of witnesses and shall be solely on the record. Within a reasonable period of time, the President shall simultaneously notify the parties in writing of the decision and a justification for it. The President&rsquo;s decision as to whether or not a violation occurred is final and no further review of whether a policy violation has occurred is allowed. INSTITUTIONAL DISCIPLINARY ACTION Sanctions for a finding of responsibility include, but are not limited to, expulsion, suspension, disciplinary probation, recommended counseling, and/or other educational sanctions. If the respondent is faculty or staff, the sanctions available include all disciplinary measures up to and including termination or de-tenure. If a final decision has been made that a policy violation occurred, the respondent shall be referred for a determination of discipline. The appropriate University Office(s) will be determined by the status of the respondent. If the respondent is a student, the matter shall be referred to the Office of Student Conduct. If the respondent is an employee/faculty member, the matter shall be referred to Human Resources or Provost. The complainant and respondent will be simultaneously notified in writing of the outcome of the disciplinary process (unless the complainant or respondent requests not to be informed of this information). The complainant has the following rights at this stage of the process: The complainant shall receive sufficient notice of and be allowed to attend any further meeting or hearing during this process, with an advisor of their choice. The complainant shall be allowed to submit a written statement about the effect of the conduct on his or her well-being. The complainant shall be allowed access to any further evidence presented during any disciplinary meeting or hearing. The Title IX Coordinator or designee shall be appointed as the complainant's contact person for any questions or assistance during the disciplinary process. THE UNIVERSITYS COMMITMENT Campus Wide Environment . The University is concerned about the effect of sexual misconduct for all members of its community. Therefore, if a final decision has been made that a policy violation occurred, the Title IX Coordinator or designee shall determine any remedies necessary to address the campus-wide environment. Education and Prevention Programs. In furtherance of its commitment to preventing sexual misconduct within the University community, theUniversity of Memphis will engage in comprehensive educational programming to prevent sexual misconduct and increase awareness. More information about the University&rsquo;s programs can be found at Office for Institutional Equity . Sexual Assault Response Team. The Sexual Assault Response Team (SART) is a multidisciplinary team of University employees who support students affected by sexual violence by assessing and addressing their needs. The mission of SART is to provide services that ensure a transition from victim to survivor for every individual whose life is impacted by sexual violence. The SART members can provide a survivor with many supportive options including counseling, medical attention, judicial services, advocacy, law enforcement, referrals, and general information regarding sexual violence. Assistance and Resources for Complainants of Sexual Misconduct. Regardless of whether a complainant elects to pursue a criminal complaint, the University of Memphis will assist complainants of sexual misconduct and will provide each complainant with a written explanation of her/his rights as a member of the University community. The University of Memphis does not publish the name of crime victims nor maintain identifiable information regarding victims in the Daily Crime Log or in the release of timely warnings. Tennessee Legal Rights. Additionally, in the Tennessee court system, a victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking has the following rights: the right to confer with the prosecution, right to be free from intimidation, harassment and abuse throughout the criminal justice system, the right to be present at all proceedings where the defendant has the right to be present, the right to be heard, when relevant, at all critical stages of the criminal justice process as defined by the General Assembly, the right to be informed of all proceedings, and of the release, transfer or escape of the accused or convicted person, the right to a speedy trial or disposition and a prompt and final conclusion of the case after the conviction or sentence, the right to restitution from the offender and the right to be informed of each of the rights established for victims. Information related to these rights may be found at . Protective Orders. Protection from abuse orders may be available through and additional information related to such orders may be found at . Also, in Shelby County complainants may contact the Orders of Protection Department (aka Citizen&rsquo;s Disputes) at 901.222.4013 for help with obtaining orders of protection. In Jackson, complainants may obtain orders of protection in Madison County Chancery Court at 731.426.6030 or Madison County General Sessions Court at 731.426.6128. Revision Dates &nbsp UM1786 - September 23, 2015 Subject Areas: Academic Finance General Human Resources Information Technology Research Student Affairs &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp