#http://www.memphis.edu/conferences/facilities/rt-directions.php
Directions to Rose Theatre - Conference &amp; Event Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Conference &amp; Event Services Facilities Conference Services Internal Scheduling Contact Us Facilities FedEx Institute of Technology The Zone Methodist Presentation Theatre Video Conference Center Digital Living Room Fishbowl Classrooms Breakout Rooms Rental Rates University Center UC Ballroom UC Theatre Fountain View Suite Senate Chamber Other meeting rooms Rental Rates Rose Theatre Access to Loading Dock Basic Lighting Setup Directions Entertainment Lobby Site Map (to scale) Seating Chart Technical Capabilities Home Conference &amp; Event Services Facilities Directions to Rose Theatre Directions to Rose Theatre N ote : All directions lead to the Zach Curlin Garage. The main entrance to the Michael D. Rose Theatre and Lecture Hall is located across the breezeway on the second floor of the garage and to the left down the ramp. Maps: Google University Printable Map Step by step directions: Coming from the east on I-40: Follow the Sam Cooper Blvd. signs, take the Highland Street exit from Sam Cooper Blvd., follow Highland south to Central, turn left (east) and follow Central to Zach Curlin, turn right (south) on Zach Curlin. Coming from the west on I-40: Take the Riverside Drive exit, follow Riverside Drive south to Union Avenue, turn left (east) and follow Union (Union will change to Walnut Grove) to Highland, turn right (south) and follow Highland to Central, turn left (east) and follow Central to Zach Curlin, turn left (south) on Zach Curlin. Coming from the airport (rental car dealerships): Leaving the car dealerships, turn west onto Democrat Road; from Democrat, take the Plough Boulevard/Airways North exit; from Plough Boulevard/Airways North, take the I-240 exit to Nashville (keep to the right as you take that exit); from I-240, take the Getwell North exit (exit # 20-B); follow Getwell north until it makes a "T" intersection with Park Avenue; turn right (east) onto Park Avenue; at the first stop light (just a block away) turn left (north) onto Goodlett Street; follow Goodlett across the railroad tracks to Central Avenue; turn left (west) onto Central and follow Central to Zach Curlin; turn left (south) on Zach Curlin. Coming from the north on I-55: Follow the signs to get onto I-40, go east on I-40 and take the Riverside Drive exit, follow Riverside Drive south to Union Avenue, turn left (east) and follow Union (Union will change to Walnut Grove) to Highland, turn right (south) and follow Highland to Central, turn left (east) and follow Central to Zach Curlin, turn left (south) on Zach Curlin. Coming from the north on U.S. Hwy. 51: Just south of Millington, turn left onto Paul Barret Parkway; take Paul Barret Parkway to State Rd. 204; turn onto Hwy. 204 and stay on that road until it ends at Summer Avenue (Hwy. 204 will change to Covington Pike, then Stratford Road); turn right (west) and follow Summer Avenue to Highland; turn left (south) and follow Highland to Central; turn left (east) and follow Central to Zach Curlin; turn right (south) on Zach Curlin. Coming from the south on I-55: Take the I-240 exit to Nashville, follow I-240 to the Getwell North exit and take that exit, follow Getwell north to Park Avenue, turn right (east) and follow Park Avenue one block to Goodlett Street; turn left (north) and follow Goodlett across the railroad tracks to Central Avenue; turn left (west) onto Central and follow Central to Zach Curlin; turn left (south) on Zach Curlin. Coming from the south on U.S. Hwy. 78: Take the Perkins Street exit, follow Perkins to Park Avenue, turn left (west) and follow Park Avenue to Goodlett, turn right (north) and follow Goodlett to Central, turn left (west) onto Central and follow Central to Zach Curlin; turn left (south) on Zach Curlin. Facilities FedEx Institute of Technology The Zone Methodist Presentation Theatre Video Conference Center Digital Living Room Fishbowl Classrooms Breakout Rooms Rental Rates University Center UC Ballroom UC Theatre Fountain View Suite Senate Chamber Other meeting rooms Rental Rates Rose Theatre Access to Loading Dock Basic Lighting Setup Directions Entertainment Lobby Site Map (to scale) Seating Chart Technical Capabilities Cotton Institute The ACSA International Cotton Institute is an eight week residential program taking student from field to fabric. University Center The University Center, together with its sister facility, the Michael D. Rose Theatre, form the cultural heart of campus. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .