#http://www.memphis.edu/bursar/pdf/receiptbook_detailtraining.pdf
1 Department Cash Receipting Training for Receipt Book, Pre Numbered Tickets and Cash Register Users Updated 9/24/15 2 Receipt Book/Pre - numbered Ticket/Cash Register Users Customers of the University may use several forms of payment, but a cash - handling site may be - handling unit. The cashier must always be attentive to certain requirements during the processing of payments t o reduce loss of funds . All cash - handling units must adhere to University and TBR cash handling policies/ guidelines and Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standards (DSS) compliant if approved to accept credit card payments . Cash - handling units m ust have their own detail internal departmental cash receipting guidelines as outlined in the Cash Handling Guide Part 1: Planning for a Cash Receipting Site (BF10913) and must be available These guidelines must include detail credit card processing and security of the data in accordance with PCI DSS. Cash - handling employees are required to have annual training either in a group session or online if avai lable. Fees and charges must be approved through the request prior to any collection of funds or advertising. After the appropriate authorities have approved the depart ment/activity fee request and the nal approval the employee that is responsible for the rece ipting process (cash custodian), to be completed and then approved by the department/activity Head or Manager. Once the form is completed, the cash custodian will receipt book. Departments utilizing pre - numbered tickets or cash register must have the eceipt book, transmittal s, check bank endorsement stamp and bank bags. They will also train the cash custodian how to use the receipt book or pre - numbered tickets and review cash receipting guidelines for both of these receipting mechanisms and cash regis ter with the custodian . Note: All department/activity receip ting locations must have a back up employee to receipt transactions when the designated cash custodian is out of the office. The department/activity may need to request a change fund from the either a permanent or a temporary basis. (Attachment A) If a change fund is approved, the cash custodian to whom funds are assigned is responsible for the change fund. The cash custodian will reconcile their change fund each time they receive and balance payments . If payments have not been received within the business week, the change fund at a minimum must be counted/verified weekly . 3 If another employee besides the cash custodian will be receipting for a specific time, the change fu nd will need to be transferred to that employee and documented. Upon the r eturn of the cash custodian, the change fund must be transferred back to the original custodian . ( Attachment B ) The cash custodian supervisor is required to perform an unannounced change fund cash count monthly (Attachment C) . A record of the cash counts must be retained for three fiscal years. Confirmation during the month of May. Petty Cash/Change Fund cus todians will be notified by email the confirmation instructions. A quick response time is needed in order to provide Internal Audit the latest and most accurate information for the year - end cash count. The cash custodian (or designee when absent) at all times will be responsible for the accountability of the receipt book/tickets/cash register reading, change fund and deposit of funds. Payments should be accepted only when an official receipt can be provided at time of payment. Receipt Book Instructions o T ypes of P ayment : a. Checks 1. ALL checks must be made payable to The University of Memphis and the back of the check must be stamped with the endorsement stamp by the cashier immediately upon receiving. 2. We do not accept post - dated checks! 3. We do not accept American Express gift checks or Comtrak checks . 4. We do accept money order checks. 5. Checks must be written for exact amount. No cash will be given in change. 6. Checks must be signed; preprinted name must agree with signa ture, numbered amount must agree with the written amount. b. Cash 1. Count the cash twice 2. When giving change, count money back to customer. 3. Large amounts of cash must be counted twice, preferably by two people whenever possible. 4. Keep money received out of your cash drawer until the transaction is complete. 4 5. Counterfeit pens should be purchased to mark $10 through $100 bills. Large bills of $50 and $100 should also be inspected closel y (Attachment D) . Note: Counterfeit pens can be ordered from Staples. 6. Cash should be immediately placed in a secured area as soon as the transaction is complete . c. Credit Cards Only certain departments /activities and cash receipting staff have been e t o accept credit card payments. These departments/activities are required to be PCI DSS compliant at all times. DO NOT TAKE ANY CREDIT CARD TRANSACTIONS OR WRITE DOWN CREDIT CARD NUMBERS IF YOU HAVE NOT BEEN APPROVED TO ACCEPT CREDIT CARDS. 1. All credit card trans actions must be PCI DSS compliant and department/ activities employees must sign a credit card data security acknowledgement form annually ( Attachment E ) . 2. Departments processing credit cards must be aware of several issues distinct to this type of payment. Some of these issues include authentication, securing credit card data , retention, and PCI DSS compliance. Departments not complying in any of these areas will forfeit their right to process credit cards and may be liable for associated fines assessed to the University by the card brands if a breach has occurred at t heir location . 3. Departments/Activities that suspect a credit card data incident/ compromise must do the following: Must notify the PCI Committee ( pcicompliance@memphis.edu ) and department Technical Support Staff immediately. If the incident involves a payment station: o Do NOT turn off the PC o Do not utilize the machine o Disconnect the network cable to the PC Document any steps taken unti l the Response Team arrives. 4. D epartment s/activities accepting credit card payments will be charged for their credit card transactions monthly credit card fees assessed to the University by the credit card processor . 5 5. The University accepts Visa, Discover, Master Card and American Express. 6. Only approved departments/activities cash handling staff can receive and process credit card payments. The credit card number must be secure d at all times. 7. In all cases, the following credit card information CANNOT be retained on paper or electronic media (this includes spreadsheets, databases, word documents, etc.). a. Full Credit Card Number b. CVV code on the back of the card c. Any image of the card 8. Departments/Activities CANNOT accept credit card payments by email (no exce ptions) . If you receive an email with a credit card number, you cannot process the credit card payment. You will have to contact the customer and give them the approved options of payment by credit card. See Attachment F on how to remove the email from your workstation. 9. Department/Activities cannot accept credit card payments by 10. Departments/Activities can accept credit card payments by fax if fax machine is in a secured area accessib le only t o cash custodian and supervisor. Credit card blank fax form may be emailed or faxed to customer but must be faxed back for processing. NOTE: credit card fax form (Attachment G ) . O therwise, the department/activity will need to ha ve Office approval of their fax form. 11. data. According to PCI regulations, the first six and last four digits of the credit card number may be r etained. For most departments/activities t he last FOUR digits and expiration date of the credit card number is the only information that would need to be retained for reporting and research. After processing a payment , you should record the last four dig its of the credit card number on the informational part of the form/document. Then cut out the credit card number section of the form/document, which must be immediately shredded in a cross cut shredder. 6 12. Departments/Activities that have a swipe credit ca rd terminal must conduct a weekly inspection of the device for skimming and tampering and maintain an Inspection Log (Attachment P) . It is recommended that high traffic areas perform a daily inspection of the device. Inspection Logs will be retained by the department for two fiscal years (July - June) and then may be destroyed. Please see Attachment Q for tips on inspecting the swipe terminal. Note: Inspection Logs at any time. d. Tiger Fund$ Tiger Fund $ represent money deposited with the Bursar by students and faculty/staff which can be used for payment of selected goods or services using their campus ID card . the acceptance of payments using Tiger Fund$. Only certain d epartments/activities have approval to accept Tiger Fund$ for payments and deposit. 1. The official University ID card must be presented at the time of the transaction. 2. The cashier should always verify the identification card photograph by comparing it to th e individual requesting the Tiger Fund$ payment option. If unsure about the verification of the individual to the ID card photograph, the cashier should request additional identification prior to completing the transaction. 3. The cashier will hav e the customer complete the top portion and sign . (Attachment H ) 4. The cashier will process the amount of the charge in the Blackboard swipe term inal and ent Tiger Fund $ balance after the transaction was processed in 5. Cashier will receipt the TigerFund$ payment and give customer the original receipt. e. Mail in payments Departments/Activities that have been approved to receive payments by mail will publish their address for mail in payments. Otherwise, mail 7 in payments should be addressed to: The University of Memphis, P.O. Box 1000, Dept. 313, Memphis, TN 38148 . 1. Checks received via mail should be listed on a mail log and receipted daily . Mail log should consist of date, name on check , check number, amount, cashier initials and receipt number once receipted. o Receipting A receipt must be issued to the customer immediately upon acceptance of any payment. a. Filling out the Receipt 1. Received of: name of customer 2. Date 3. Description: description of item or activity 4. Check the type of payment 5. Amount 6. Cashier signature 7. White copy of receipt to customer and the yellow copy stays in the book b. Pre - numbered tickets 1. At beginning of shift to establish accou ntability , take a reading of the beginning and ending ticket number. 2. At end of shift, take a reading of the next ticket number to be issued and ending ticket number. The beginning ticket number in step one less the next ticket number should be the ticket accountability for the cashier shift for reconciling and recording on the transmittal form. The endin g ticket number should be compared to the ending ticket number in step one to verify that no tickets ar e missing. c. Cash Register 1. At beginning of shift, take a cash register beginning reading. Note: Depending on the register set up, the register reading may always begin with zero , but not necessarily. 2. At end of shift, take cash register reading for reconci ling and recording on the transmittal form. o Voided T ransactions a. All voided transactions must be supported by documenting on the original receipt the reason for the void, the signature of a supervisor 8 responsible for reviewing voids and date. Note : Voids should only be processed the same day as the original transaction (prior to depositing of funds). b. The original voided receipt must be kept by the department/activity attached to the copy of the receipt in the receipt book. o Secured storage Funds mu st be kept in a locked drawer, cabinet, safe, or locked office until Funds must be secured at all times. Depositing of Funds Departments/Activities receiving monies will transmit their bank deposit and receipts accountabil deposit transmittal form . siness hours of receipt if $500 or more , but if receipt transactions are less than $500 , a deposit must be submitted weekly. TBR guideline: E. Depositing funds Each institutional department will deposit funds each day when $500 in funds have been accumulated. All funds must be adequately secured. In all cases, a deposit must be made at least once each work week (M - F) if there are any funds to be deposited. The $500 is considered in excess of the established change fund amount. requires departments/activities to balance their payments/ transactions daily and strongly recommend s that their deposit be submitted eac h day even if they have not met the $500 in receipt transactions. All department/activities cashiers are required to have a reviewer (supervisor or designee) to sign that they have reviewed the transmittal for accuracy, counted the cash deposit, verified t hat the deposit slip and bank deposit bag informatio n balances to the transmittal and all forms have been properly completed. Transport of Receipts Departments/Activities will be issued bank deposit bags to be used in transporting monies and the Deposit Ba g Receipt Log. Security trans port services provided by Police Services are available for departments and activities that receipt monies. Wilder, is available for deposits after normal business hours. Police Services must be notified to unlock the night depository in order to deposit bags. 9 Preparing Transmitt al, Deposits and Bank Bag and Transporting Deposit Preparing the transmittal form (Attachment I ) and bank deposit accurately is essential to proper cash control. Without accuracy, these errors affect many areas of the University Office, the Accounting Office , the department, etc. ank. Please follow these instructions and the completed and submitted transmittal/deposit will be correct: Deposit Transmittal Sheet box Department: department/activity name Universit y No.: assigned department/activity UID number Deposit Slip No.: from deposit slip Date: Bag No.: last four numbers of bank bag Transmittal No.: department/activity can number your transmittals with any series of numbers. Keep track of you r series. Accountability box Type of Receipt: receipt book, ticket, cash register Receipt Numbers: beginning and ending receipt book numbers, pre - numbered ticket series, cash register reading Amount: total amounts of each type of receipt Voided Receipt Numbers: from receipt book, pre - numbered ticket, cash register Total Accountability: total of all receipt transactions received Funds on Hand box Coin/Currency: total of coins and currency (count twice and have two adding machine tapes o f the cash breakdown) Checks/Money Orders: total checks and money orders (two adding machine tapes) Visa/MC/Discover/Amex: total of all cr edit cards (add sales slips total s hould balance to terminal credit cards sales). Once balanced, run the credit bat ch release process on the credit card terminal. TF$ Debit Transfers: TF$ debit card totals (add TF$ forms - Attachment H and complete TF$ deposit form - Attachment J ) Total Funds on Hand: total of cash, checks, credit card and TF$ debit cards Total Accountability: from Accountability box Net Over/(Short): should be zero if your Funds on Hand matches your Accountability To be Credited as Follows box Department/Activity may have more than one FOAPAL to insert with an amount to each one. Insert the Am ount of each FOAPAL Add amounts and insert in Total space - IMPORTANT: should balance to total accountability and funds on hand, if not then re - check and correct. 10 Signatures Important! o o Revie Supervisor or designee is required to review and sign off on the following: Review/sign the transmittal for accuracy Review/verify deposit slip(s) for accuracy and balance s to the transmittal Count the cash deposit and initial deposit sli p Review/verify bank bag balances to transmittal and initial Note: Signature and initials of supervisor/designee indicates that all the items above have been completed including the cash count of the deposit and places accountability for the verification of the funds on the supervisor. Deposit Slip Preparation On each appropriate deposit slip (Attachment K ) , enter the date preparing deposit, department and bag number. o Cash/Checks will have a separate deposit slip from credit cards . a. Cash - enter the total amount of bills on the currency line and total amount of coins on the coin line. b. Checks - enter the total amount of checks on the check line . c. Add the cash and checks and enter the total amount at the TOTAL line at the bottom of the deposit s lip and in the TOTAL side box. Note: T his total should balance back to your transmittal. d. The white and pink copy of the deposit slip will be placed in the bank bag, along with the cash, checks an d one of the adding machine tape s for cash and checks . All of these items should be attached to the deposit slip (coins can be loose in the bag). e. The blue copy of the de posit slip with the other adding machine tape for cash and checks stapled to the deposit slip will be attached and sent with the transmittal to o Credit Cards will have a separate deposit slip from cash/checks . a. Write c/c in the first blank line on the deposit slip (under checks) and enter the total amount of credit cards (should match your batch release). b. Enter the total amount of credit cards at the TOTAL line at the bottom of the deposit slip and in the TOTAL side box. Note: this total should balance back to your transmittal and batch release. 11 c. Three copies of the deposit slip (white, pink and blue) and a copy of the batch release will be attached and sent with the transmittal to the Preparing Bank Deposit Bag Complete the following steps for the label on the bank deposit bag (Attachment L ) . 1. To: First Tennessee Bank 2. From: University of Memphis and Department Name 3. Authorized Signature: supervisor or designee person who counts/reviews your deposit for accuracy (to be completed at the time the supervisor or designee is reviewing and verifying the transmittal and deposit ) 4. C ash Amount: enter total cash amount (should match the amount on your deposit slip) 5. Check Amount: enter total check amount (should match the amount on your deposit slip) 6. Total Deposit Amount: total of cash and checks (should match the total amount on your deposit slip) 7. Prepared By: cashier signature 8. Date: date of deposit (should match the date on your deposit slip and transmittal/cashier checkout/balance form Disposition of bank deposit bag b 1. The bank bag should ONLY contain the following: White and pink copy of the cash/check deposit slip Cash/coins with one adding machine tape of cash break down Checks with one adding machine tape attached to the deposit slips. Seal the bank deposit bag after the deposit has been reviewed/verified by the supervisor or designee. 2. Secured to the outside of the bag should be the following: Transmittal (all three copies) Blue copy of the cash/check deposit slip with on e copy of the check and cash adding machine tape attached to the deposit slip. White, pink and blue copies of the credit card deposit slip and batch release attached to deposit slips. TF$ debit transfer forms/deposit form Individual payment list (if applic able) Report of Shortage/Overage form ( if applicable ) Supervisor must initial the bank bag verifying the amount on bag matches deposit slip total. 12 Note: Write legibly on all forms, no gel pens. It is very important to be accurate when filling out the depo sit slip, bank bag and when putting the correct amount of money in your deposit are performed, there should be no deposit discrepancies on the bank reconciliation each month. Se curing Funds Keep funds secure at all times. Make sure, if locking in a drawer, locked cabinet, or locked office , that access is limited to you and y our supervisor. If you receive large amounts of cash over the weekend , contact Police Servic es for safekeeping or have Police Services depository box outside room 115 Wilder. Deposits are generally submitted to the Bursar by using the services of Police Services to transfer the monies. Monies should never be sent through campus mail. The cash , as long as the funds are secure during transport. It is recommended that all cash receiving departments/activities utilize Polices Services transport services. 1. Police Services Transport Services Process The cash custodian or supervisor will need to complete the Deposit Bag Receip t Log (Attachment M ) to transfer the bank deposit bag to the Police Officer. The cash custodian /supervisor will maintain this form. The Police Officer will complete the Deposit Bag Movement Report (Attachment N ) that the cash custodian /supervisor is requi red to sign , indicating that they are transferring the deposit bag to the Police Officer. Note: If Police Services missed coming to your office, please contact them at 4357 for a bank deposit pick up. 2. Return of Receipted Transmittal Police Services will deliver a copy of the receipted transmittal and the receipt to the department/activity in most c ases the next business day. 13 Reporting Cash Shortage/Overage If there is a cash shortage/overage, it is typically realized during the balancing of cash receipts. Objective reviews must be completed to eliminate misconduct and provide assurance that c ontrols are effective. If misconduct is suspected, Internal Audit must be contacted. All cash shortages/overages will be recorded to the account code 74910 of the expenditure/revenue account of the department or activity responsible for receipting the mone y and a Report of Cash (Attachment O ) . Reporting Shortag es Equal to or Greater than $500 TBR Guideline No. B - 080: Reporting and Resolution of Institutional Losses A. Losses Due to Cash Shortages Each institution is required to report cash shortages equal to or greater than $ 500 immediately to TBR. Some cash shortages result from human error and are the cost associated with doing business. However, objective reviews must be comple ted to eliminate misconduct and provide assurance that controls are effective. Regardless of amount, management should routinely review shortages to identify any unusual items, recurring issues or a pattern of financial shortfalls. If suspected fraud or mi sconduct is identified in any area or unit, the matter should be reported immediately to TBR and handled as a reportable situation as noted in this guideline. The U o f M is required to report cash shortages equal to or greater than $ 500 immediately to TBR. verified the cash shortage of $ 500 Office should be contacted within two hours of the knowledge of the shortage. Reporting Shortages Less than $ 500 The cashie prior to finalizing the deposit. If the shortage is not resolved, a Report of Cash Shortage/Overage form will be prepared and the shortage will be recorded on the deposi t transmittal form and charged to the department/activity FOAPAL with account code 74910. T he completed Report of Cash Shortage /Overage form should be included with the applicable deposit when submitted to the . Reporting Overages The cashier must deposit ov must review al l transactions and verify the funds prior to finalizing the deposit. If the overage is not resolved, a Report of Cash Shortage/Overage form will be prepared and the overag e recorded on the depo si t transmittal form and credited to the department/activity FOAPAL with account code 74910. The 14 completed Report of Cash Shortage /Overage form should be included with the Preparing Cash Shortage/ Overage Form If you have a cash shortage or overage review and count all funds prior to completing the balancing process. The Cash Shortage/Overage form (Attachme nt O ) must be complete d for out of balance discrepancies. All items MUST be completed ; the cashier and supervisor must SIGN the form. Do not leave any information requested on the form blank. Fill in the appropriate amount over or short. Business Unit Reporting Shortage /Ove rage box: Department: department name Location: building and room number Cashier: please print your name Supervisor: please print your name Date of shortage Number of Transactions Amount: total transmittal receipt amount Explanation: explain reason of shortage/overage if known , otherwise you will need to state any other significant information, such as were all funds verified, who verified, and error was not found etc . Signatures box Signature Date Signature Date out/balance sheet . 15 Refund Request for Payments All payment refund requests must be sent to Refund request must be approved according to who is authorized to sign on the refund account (FOAPAL) from the authorized signature list. In no situation should a cashier approve the refund request. Re fund request for check payments cannot be processed until 3 weeks from the deposit date of the check. Credit card payment refunds will be credited back to the applicable credit card. The following information is required when completing a Refund Request F orm (Attachment R) . Name and Address of Payee Payment Date Refund Amount UID or Vendor Number Phone (if applicable) Receipt Number (must have receipt number) Account Information - FOAPAL Reason for Refund Department/Activity Name Requested By Date Requested Approved By (authorized signature list for FOAPAL) Date Approved Account FOAPAL Amount 16 Other Important Information Questions regarding cash receipting , please contact: Brenda Butler bbutler@memphis.edu or call 5097 Keri Means klmeans@memphis.edu or call 2108 Revon Thaxter rthaxter@memphis.edu or call 4280 Questions regarding credit card PCI DSS compliance, please contact: Henry Robbins hzrobbns@memphis.edu or call 1376 Alecia Lawrence alawrenc@memphis.edu or call 3894 Deposit Slips Bank B ags Transmittals Endorsement Stamp Deposit Receipt Log Year End - All payments received must be receipted by June 30 or last business day for June. Important Links: Cash Handling Guide: Cash Shortage/Overage Form: Request for Access to Touchnet/Banner: New Fee/C hange in Amount of Fee Request: University PCI Compliance Policy :