#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/services/awards_ed.php
The College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Services to Students The College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences The College of Education, Health and Human Services Eleanor Mae Ferguson Award is presented each year to the outstanding junior or senior woman Physical Education major who displays strong leadership, outstanding character, and high scholarship and who performs an active role in departmental and campus activities. Ralph Hatley Sr. Award is presented to the outstanding junior or senior male Physical Education major who displays strong leadership, outstanding character, and high scholarship and who performs an active role in departmental and campus activities. The Department of Health and Sport Sciences Outstanding Senior In Sport and Leisure Studies Award is presented annually in recognition of meritorious scholarship, leadership and service to the University, the community and the profession. The Department of Health and Sport Sciences Outstanding Graduate Student Award is presented annually in recognition of meritorious scholarship, leadership and service to the University, the community and the profession. The Department of Health and Sport Sciences Outstanding Senior In Health and Human Performance Award is presented annually in recognition of meritorious scholarship, leadership and service to the University, the community, and the profession. The Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Outstanding Senior Award is presented annually to an outstanding senior majoring in Special Education and Rehabilitation who displays strong leadership, outstanding character and scholarship and takes an active role in departmental and campus activities. The Frank Dyer, Jr. Kappa Delta Pi Junior Academic Achievement Award is presented annually to the junior having the highest grade point average. The John R. Petry Kappa Delta Pi Senior Academic Achievement Award is presented annually to the senior having the highest grade point average. The Department of Consumer Science And Education Outstanding Senior Award is presented each year to the graduating senior in the department with the highest academic average. The Marquita L. Irland Scholars Award is presented annually to a graduate with outstanding contributions in the areas of leadership, service to the community, to the profession of family and consumer sciences, and scholarship. The Memphis Education Association Award is presented each year to the graduating senior who, having graduated from the Memphis City Schools System and completed all college level work in a teacher education program at the University, has attained the highest grade point average of the students in this category. The Heber E. Rumble Outstanding Student Teacher Award is presented each year to the student whose performance in student teaching is judged to be the most outstanding. The Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Outstanding Early Childhood Major Award is presented annually to the Early Childhood Education major who has demonstrated outstanding scholarship, involvement in professional organizations, and professional potential. The Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Outstanding Elementary Education Major Award is presented annually to the Elementary Education major who has demonstrated outstanding scholarship, involvement in professional organizations, and professional potential. The Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Outstanding Master’s Degree Candidate Award is presented to the master’s candidate who has demonstrated outstanding scholarship, involvement in professional organizations, and professional integrity. The Dean’s Award is presented annually on the basis of scholarship, professionalism, leadership, and service to the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences, the University, and/or professional organizations. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .