#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/graduate/schmodel.php
School Psychology Programs - M.S.Ph.D. Philosophy and Taning Model - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources Graduate Clinical About the Program Clinical Faculty Child Clinical Clinical Health Psychology Psychotherapy Research Admission Clinical Student Handbook Clinical Forum Schedule Experimental About the Program Experimental Faculty Cognitive Behavioral Neuroscience Required Courses Admission Financial Support School About the Programs School Faculty Child &amp; Family Studies Research Group Historical Statement Financial Support M.S./Ph.D. Program Philosophy and Training Model M.S./Ph.D. Program Goals and Objectives Doctoral Handbook Resources and Information School Psychology Association M.A./Ed.S.Program Goals What is a School Psychologist Masters in General Psychology About the Program Program Goals Required Courses Admission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for Applying Department Application Graduate School Application Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCC GSCC Concerns/Complaints GSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources APA Required Disclosures Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Home Department of Psychology Graduate School Psychology Programs - M.S.Ph.D. Philosophy and Taning Model School Psychology Program - M.S./Ph.D. Philosophy and Training Model Since the foundation of American public education, a societal emphasis has been placed on schools to provide a better future for children and adolescents through a life-long educative process. In their professional roles, school psychologists are sensitive to the needs of a culturally diverse community, value the importance of children and adolescents to the future of society, and advocate on the behalf of children. As an integral part of human services available to children, adolescents, adults, and families, school psychologists function across multiple settings with a focus on educational institutions. School psychologists provide varied services, such as psychoeducational assessment, consultation, counseling and other interventions, inservice education, administrative services, research, and evaluation. The primary distinction that separates school psychology from other psychological specialties is the combining of education and psychology in the study and delivery of services to children, adolescents, families, and learners of all ages. The additional focus of education to this area of psychology stems from the assumption that schools play a primary nurturing and socializing role in the lives of all individuals. School psychologists focus on the natural ecologies of children, adolescents, families, learners, and persons involved in schooling as well as the process of schooling in multiple settings. (See ) Because they receive training in both education and psychology, school psychologists are in a unique position to coordinate educational, psychological, and behavioral health services to learners across the life span. The curriculum of the program is an integrated course of study in areas of psychology and education (in addition to specialized school psychology courses) that contributes to the preparation of school psychologists. The philosophy of the school psychology programs at The University of Memphis reflects an ecological, evidence-based model that focuses on the multiple systems in which children exist. This perspective recognizes the complex interaction of person variables within and across multiple systems. This philosophy also acknowledges that the manner in which problems are defined influences the subsequent use of assessment and intervention strategies. The doctoral program model reflects the scientist–practitioner approach that balances knowledge and competencies in both research and practice (Frank, 1984; Raimy, 1950). Students draw upon the scientific literature to make decisions regarding practice with a focus on evidence-based services. Students are also instructed regarding basic program evaluation techniques and treatment monitoring and evaluation in order to determine the effectiveness of their assessments and interventions. Students are taught to use a scientific problem-solving model to make clinical decisions by operationalizing problems, identifying appropriate data collection techniques, analyzing and interpreting data collected, and utilizing the findings to determine the target variables for intervention. Students are also trained in design and statistical techniques to produce scientific knowledge for the practice of school psychology. The doctoral program seeks to prepare school psychologists whose contributions will be through research and academic careers, future trainers of school psychologists, and future leaders in the field of school psychology. The research preparation for students is based on a “scientist as producer” model. Clinically, students are also trained to develop skills as case managers, clinicians in comprehensive school and mental health settings, and supervisors of others who provide educational and psychological services to children, adolescents, and families. The doctoral program also seeks to produce graduates who have specialized skills designed to match their interests and perceptions of training needs. The overall goal of the doctoral program is that students will complete the requirements of the program, obtain credentialing for school-based practice, become licensed for independent practice as psychologists and health service providers, and contribute to the field through service, research, and teaching. Graduate Clinical About the Program Clinical Faculty Child Clinical Clinical Health Psychology Psychotherapy Research Admission Clinical Student Handbook Clinical Forum Schedule Experimental About the Program Experimental Faculty Cognitive Behavioral Neuroscience Required Courses Admission Financial Support School About the Programs School Faculty Child &amp; Family Studies Research Group Historical Statement Financial Support M.S./Ph.D. Program Philosophy and Training Model M.S./Ph.D. Program Goals and Objectives Doctoral Handbook Resources and Information School Psychology Association M.A./Ed.S.Program Goals What is a School Psychologist Masters in General Psychology About the Program Program Goals Required Courses Admission Apply to Psychology Graduate Programs Instructions for Applying Department Application Graduate School Application Graduate Student Coordinating Committee About GSCC GSCC Concerns/Complaints GSCC Travel Funding Graduate Program Forms and Resources APA Required Disclosures Clinical Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data School Student Admissions, Outcomes and Other Data Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .