#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/about/jobs.php
Job Announcements - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News About FCBE Dean's Message Mission Statement Facts &amp; Figures General Information A to Z List Driving Directions FAQs Job Announcements Social Media Policy Faculty and Staff Student Contact Us Home FCBE About FCBE Job Announcements Job Announcements ASSOCIATE DEAN FOR ACADEMIC PROGRAMS AND RESEARCH Description The Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics is conducting an internal search to identify qualified applicants for the position of Associate Dean for Academic Programs and Research, a twelve-month, administrative position. Individuals in this position are not required to teach classes during the academic year, nor are they eligible for summer school teaching assignments. The Associate Dean for Academic Programs and Research reports to the Dean of the Fogelman College and is responsible for administering and improving the performance of all College curricula and instruction, as prioritized by the Dean, and promotion of the research program of the College. Please see the detailed description of job duties and responsibilities below. Qualifications Applicants for this position should have a terminal degree in a business/business-related discipline and have attained the rank of full or associate professor with tenure. Evidence of successful administrative experience and strong knowledge of academic programs in business are highly desirable. Compensation The standard administrative compensation is a 25% increase in the 9-month, academic-year salary to convert it into a 12-month salary and then a 7% administrative stipend based on the 12-month salary is added. Applications and Nominations Applicants for the position should include a letter of application, curriculum vitae, and the names and contact information of three professional references. Applications can be made at . Nominations and self-nominations to Dean Rajiv Grover are welcome. Applications will be accepted until October 30, 2015. Advisory Committee members are: Charles Pierce, Marla Stafford, Albert Okunade, Shelley Bennett, and Tom Miller (Chair). Job Duties and Responsibilities Primary duties and responsibilities include oversight and coordination of the program staff for the activities listed below. The emphasis on these activities may change, depending upon the prevailing requirements and needs of the College. Undergraduate Degree Programs Course offerings and scheduling each semester with Department Chairs Course offerings and scheduling each semester with University Extended Programs College Honors programs Master's Degree Programs Course offerings and scheduling each semester with Department Chairs Course offerings and scheduling each semester with University Extended Programs Ph.D. Programs Course offerings and scheduling each semester with Department Chairs Graduate assistantship budget oversight College Concerns The improvement of all College curricula and instruction to help meet College goals The management of all College curricula and instruction to meet AACSB requirements and goals Student Recruiting College recruiting efforts for high-ability students at the undergraduate and master's program levels College recruiting efforts for the Ph.D. program The College Internship program for undergraduate and masters' students Student Interaction Undergraduate and Graduate Student Advising College Student Delegate Board Student grade appeals/complaints which have passed through the Department-level grade appeal/complaint process University Interaction College representative for University Undergraduate Programs and Graduate Councils College representative for University articulation agreements Research Promotion and advancement of research culture in the College Liaison with other University units in facilitating research opportunities for faculty Top ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF MANAGEMENT Description The Department of Management in the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics is seeking a tenure-track Assistant Professor with specialization in human resource management, effective fall semester 2016, pending available funding. Responsibilities Effectively teaching undergraduate and graduate courses, developing a stream of high-quality research, participating in activities of the Department, and fulfilling professional and university service responsibilities. The Department of Management is an academically diverse, research-oriented group of 18 full-time faculty members with specializations in human resource management, organizational behavior, strategy, entrepreneurship, international business, and business communications. The Department offers degree programs at all levels and is fully accredited by AACSB International. For more information, see: . Qualifications Candidates should have a Ph.D. with a concentration in management or closely related discipline (advanced ABDs will be considered if degree completion is imminent), a record of effective college teaching and commitment to teaching excellence, and evidence of development of a strong research program targeting leading management journals (e.g., AMJ, AMR, JAP, JIBS, JMS, JOM, JOB, OBHDP, PPsych). Applicants with research and teaching expertise in human resource management along with related areas such as international management, organizational research methods, or multilevel research are highly desired for this position. Compensation This is an academic-year appointment and offers competitive compensation, summer research support, and an attractive benefits program, depending on qualifications. College The Fogelman College of Business and Economics has become a leading business school in the Southeast. Globalization is a strategic emphasis of the College. Degree programs offered include the BBA, MA (Economics), MBA, Executive MBA, International MBA, MS, and PhD. The academic programs of the College are fully accredited by AACSB International. The College full-time faculty of 96 serves nearly 3,100 students, with approximately 2,450 undergraduates, 550 master's students, and 70 doctoral students. The highly qualified faculty is widely recognized for scholarship and publications in leading academic and professional journals. For more information, see: . University The University of Memphis is emerging as one of America's great metropolitan research universities. Founded in 1912, the University is a state, tax-assisted institution with an enrollment of approximately 23,000 students. The University is the flagship of the Tennessee Board of Regents system and is one of two comprehensive doctoral-granting public institutions in Tennessee, offering a broad array of degree programs at all levels. The University has 24 Chairs of Excellence, more than any other Tennessee university, and five state-approved Centers of Excellence. The modern and beautifully landscaped campus is centrally located in an attractive residential area of east Memphis. For more information, see: . Application Applications should include a cover letter outlining interests and qualifications, curriculum vitae, research samples, unofficial academic transcripts, and the names and contact information of at least three professional references, and be submitted online at: . Screening of applications begins October 23 and may continue until the position is filled. Applications, nominations, and inquiries should be directed to: Dr. Charles A. (Chuck) Pierce, Chair, Department of Management, Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics, The University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152, Voice: 901-678-3159 Email: capierce@memphis.edu . Top INSTRUCTOR of marketing Position The Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management in the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics is seeking qualified applicants for a faculty position beginning spring semester (January) 2016. This is a nine-month, non-tenure-track appointment. Hiring is contingent on final budget approval. Responsibilities Effectively delivering course instruction in social media practice and analytics as well as other areas of marketing, supporting the social media marketing minor, coordinating social media efforts for the department, overseeing social media internships, participating in relevant departmental activities, and complying with all College and University regulations. Instructors typically teach four courses per semester. Qualifications A Ph.D. in marketing with emphasis in advertising, e-commerce, mass communications or a related area is strongly desired. Minimum education requirement is an appropriate master's degree. Relevant experience in marketing and social media required. College teaching experience highly desired. Compensation Position offers competitive salary and attractive benefits package, depending on qualifications. The College and Department The Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management is an academically diverse group of 21 full-time faculty. The Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics has become a leading business school in the Southeast, and the academic programs of the College are fully accredited by the AACSB (Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business International). The College's full-time faculty of 96 serves approximately 3,100 students, with nearly 2,450 undergraduates, 550 master's students, and 70 doctoral students. Additional information about the University, College, and Department is available at the University's official website: . Applications Applications should include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, unofficial transcripts of highest degree earned, and the names and contact information of three professional references. Screening of applications will begin September 24, 2015 , and may continue until the position is filled. Applications must be made at: . The Search Committee Chair is Dr. Marla Royne Stafford, Chair of the Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management, 901.678.2499, mstaffrd@memphis.edu . Top The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents Institution, is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants are urged to apply for this position. Appointment will be based on qualifications as they relate to the position requirements without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, disability, or veteran status. About FCBE Dean's Message Mission Statement Facts &amp; Figures General Information A to Z List Driving Directions FAQs Job Announcements Social Media Policy Faculty and Staff Student Contact Us Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/30/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .