#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/pdfs/about/social_media_guidelines_fac_staff.pdf
Electronic Communication Systems and Social Networking Employee Social Media Policy of the University of Memphis provides and maintains varying forms of electronic communication, messaging agents and electronic facilities including internal and external electronic mail (e - mail), telephone voice mail, internet access, and computer hardware and software. As a condition of providing the previously identified communications access to its employees, the College places certain restrictions on workplace use of the same. All electronic communication systems, as well as the equipment and data stored, are and remain at all t imes the property of the University . Further, use of College or University resources is governed by the Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources policy. Social Networking Social networking can take many different forms, including internet forums, blogs & microblogs, online profiles, wikis, podcasts, pictures and video, email, instant messaging, music - sharing, and voice over IP, to name just a few. Examples of social networking applications are LinkedIn, Facebook, MySpace, Wikipedia, YouTube, Twitter, Yelp, Flickr, Second Life, Yahoo groups, WordPress , ZoomInfo the list is endless. When you are participating in social networking, you are representing both yourselves personally , the Univer sity and the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. It is not our intention to restrict your ability to have an online presence and to mandate what you can and cannot say. While we encourage this online collaboration, we would like to provide you with a College policy and set of guidelines for appropriate online conduct and to avoid the misuse of this communication medium. Maintain Confidentiality . Do not post any financial, confidential, sensitive or proprietary information about the College , facul ty , staff, students or alumni . All employees must follow applicable federal and state requirements about disclosure of information including the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act as well as all applicable University privacy and confidential ity policies. Be aware of your impact . Beware of comments that could reflect poorly on you and the College. Social media sites are not the forum for venting personal complaints about faculty, students or the College. Readers will associate you with the C ollege and University, even if you are posting from your personal account. Be aware that your audience online includes prospective students, current students, employers, colleagues and peers. As a guideline, consider whether you would make the comments a t a public conference as part of a presentation. Follow University policy . University policies regarding standards of conduct, ethics, harassment, discrimination and/or bullying apply to content posted online. Violating any University policy while using social media could subject you to corrective action. Be responsible . As a College employee, be aware that you are responsible for the content you post and that information remains in cyberspace forever. Use privacy settings when appropriate. Remember, th e internet is immediate and nothing posted is ever truly private nor does it expire. If you are unsure about posting something or responding to a comment, ask Social Media Team Coordinator for input. Be advised that Team Coordinator is Anna Michael; Coordi nator of College Relations and Events & Marketing Instructor; Fogelman College of Business and Ec onomics; University of Memphis | anna.m ichael@memphis.edu | 901.678.5931 . Identification . If you are posting to personal networking sites and are speaking about job related content or about the College or University , identify yourself as a University employee and use a disclaimer and make it clear that these views are not reflective of the views of the College or the University of Memphis essed on this site are my own and do not necessarily represent the views of the College or the University of Memphis Do not use University logos or other University images on personal social media sites. Copyrights/Trademarks . Do not infringe on copyri images without permission and remember to cite where you saw information if it i s not your own thoughts. Terms of Service . Obey the terms of service of any social media platform used. Notwithstanding the above, nothing in this section is meant to imply any restriction or diminishment of employee rights to free speech or to engage in protected activity under law. The College may monitor content out on the web. If you have any questions about this policy or a specific posting out on the web, please contact Anna Michael; Coordinator of College Relations and Events & Marketing Instructor; Fogelman College of Business and Ec onomics; University of Memphis | anna.michael@memphis.edu | 901.678.593 1 .