#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/pdfs/about/social_media_guidelines_students.pdf
Social Networking Guidelines Student Social Media Policy The Fogelman College of Business and Economics of the University of Memphis recognizes that social networking has changed the way people communicate and that student s want to be a part of this ever - changing platform there are many valuable uses of these networks. However, because social networking is so accessible and has blurred the lines between personal and private, there are a num ber of concerns with social networking si tes of which you should be aware. Realize that information you post without using appropriate privacy settings may be available to anyone including University and College faculty , current or prospective employers, gradu ate school admissions officers, and many more . While the College encourages this online collaboration, we would like to provide you with a College policy and set of guidelines for appropriate online conduct and to avoid the misuse of this communicat ion medium. O nline can mean forever . Remember that what you post is accessible long after you remove it. Also, comments can be forwarded or copied. Years from now current or prospective employers could find posts that you create now. Graduate School a dmissions officers may use this information to ascertain your maturity and professional growth. If it is not something you would say to an employer in person you should think ring your dream job in the future. Use privacy settings . Understand and use the privacy settings on social netwo rking sites . If you do not, your personal information is available to the entire world. Do not provide personal identifying information suc h as date of birth, phone numbers, home addresses or class schedules. Be careful . Be aware of who y ou add as a friend to your site. Do not allow someone else to create and manage accounts on your behalf unless you have total access to the logins, passwords and procedures for those accounts. Respect others . on the privacy of your friends, peers or College faculty . Never post personal information of others that could be embarrassing to them or the University or College . If posting ph otos, ask the permission of those involved. If someone objects to photography, avoid using it as a matter of common courtesy. Follow the rules. Make sure you understand the policies and terms of use of any social media outlet you use. Read the terms of s ervice before using. Displaying behavior that violates federal and/or state law could have serious consequences that could affect your future. Follow University policy. All University of Memphis student policies apply to social networking as well. Adhe re to the student handbook (especially regarding academic honesty and student code of conduct) and any/all applicable student policies and standards of conduct. It is expected that you conduct yourself in a way that exemplifies the socially responsible an d honorable behavior expected of all College student s .