#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/pdfs/office_of_student_judicial_and_ethical_programs.pdf
Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Programs (JEP) Ben Morton, Associate Dean of Students Jeanette Forrest, Office Coordinator Sheron Taylor, Discipline Officer Chris Sparrow, Discipline Officer 359 University Center 901.678.2198 JEP - Functions and Purpose The Office of Judicial and Ethical Programs administers the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities and other student policies, including academic misconduct. It is our responsibility to review and investigate complaints submitted to this office by faculty, staff or students and to determine appropriate sanctions. Guiding Principles Maintain a University environment which is conducive to academic success Promote a safe and secure campus by protecting the rights of all members of the University community Encourage students to assume self and social responsibility Provide opportunities for individual growth and development Enhance decision making and conflict resolution skills Advance the development of ethical values Your Role in the University Discipline Process Managing the Classroom Setting/Communicating Expectations Include in your syllabus Know and enforce the University of Memphis academic integrity policy Consistency Defining academic dishonesty, procedures & sanctions Student Rights and Responsibilities Academic Integrity at the University of Memphis Plagiarism Includes, but is not limited to, the use (by paraphrasing or direct quotation) of the published or unpublished work of another person without full or clear acknowledgement. This also includes the unacknowledged use of materials prepared by another person or agency engaged in the selling of term papers or other academic materials. Cheating Unauthorized assistance in taking quizzes, tests, or exams Dependence upon the aid of sources beyond those authorized by the instructor (including electronic devices such as laptops and cell phones) Acquisition without permission of tests or other academic material before such material is revealed or distributed by the instructor Misrepresentation of papers, reports, assignments, sole independent effort Cheating (continued) Failing to abide by the instructions of a proctor Influencing or attempting to influence any University official, faculty member, graduate student, or employee possessing academic grading and/or evaluation authority or responsibility for maintenance of academic records Forgery, alteration, unauthorized possession or misuse of University documents pertaining to academic records Procedures for Reporting Academic Misconduct If you feel that a student has violated the University Academic Integrity policy, you should: Retain all evidence which may be pertinent to any subsequent investigation. Compose a written statement of all facts related to the matter. What Happens to a Student Accused of an Academic Integrity Violation? If you believe that a student has violated the academic integrity policy, you have the authority to: (a) take action or (b) refer the matter to the Academic Integrity Committee. (A) Taking Action. You have the authority to issue a diminished or failing grade in the course, assignment, or examination. This process is referred to as Summary Discipline. If you invoke this process, you must report your decision to the Chair of your department who will then notify the involved student. Dear Student: This letter is to advise you that you will receive a grade of Section , on the grounds that you submitted a paper, Name of Paper , containing plagiarized material. Accordingly, is entering this grade of as an exercise of Summary Discipline as stated in the 2005 - 2006 Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities, located in the Student Handbook Planner on page 147. You may appeal Professor Name exercise of Summary Discipline to the Academic Integrity Committee by submitting a written statement stating your intention to appeal to the Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Programs, Room 105 University Center, within five (5) days of receipt of this letter. Failure to submit your appeal within the five - day period will foreclose your right of appeal. Please contact the Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Programs at 678 - 2298 if you have any questions regarding the appeal process. What Happens to a Student Accused of an Academic Integrity Violation? (continued) (B) Academic Integrity Committee. If you decide to refer the matter to the Academic Integrity Committee, you and the accused student both present information to the committee which will then consider whether sufficient evidence of impropriety exists and, if appropriate, delivers formal sanctions. Academic Integrity Committee Appointed by the Vice President for Student Affairs University - wide standing committee composed of five faculty members and four students Has disciplinary authority to hear charges of academic misconduct Consequences of Academic Integrity Violations Diminished or failing grade in the course, assignment, or examination The Academic Integrity Committee has the authority to impose University discipline including probation, suspension or expulsion Why is it important for you to report violations to JEP? Multiple Violators Safety in Your Classroom Unruly/disrespectful students Violations of appropriate classroom etiquette When to get help If you feel threatened, call campus police 678 - HELP (4357) Mental health concerns Sudden change in personality Drop in grades/attendance Changes in appearance or class participation Behavioral Intervention Team (BIT) The purpose of the Behavioral Intervention Team for Students (BIT) is to address student behavioral concerns that are inconsistent with team act with a common purpose to address critical student behavioral or mental health concerns through review of situations/incidents, information gathering and sharing, and providing recommendations to ensure the safety and educational success of the student. Comments and Questions Dr. Stephen Petersen: shptrsen@ memphis.edu Ben Morton: bemorton@memphis.edu