#http://www.memphis.edu/accountancy/courses/undergraduate.php
Undergraduate Courses - ACCT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - School of Accountancy Welcome Programs Admissions Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Publications FCBE Courses Welcome Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Admissions Getting Started Financial Assistance Application Form Networking &amp; Career Development Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Courses Offered Undergraduate Graduate Course Syllabi Publications Contact Us Home ACCT Courses Undergraduate Courses Undergraduate Courses KENTON B. WALKER, PhD Director FAB 200 901.678.4569 kbwalker@memphis.edu In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ACCT 4920-29. Special Topics in Accounting. (3) . Varied topics. May be repeated once with change in topic. PREREQUISITE: permission of director. ACCT 2010 - Fundamentals of Acct I (3) (TBR: ACCT 1010). Introduction to measurement, realization, classification and disclosure concepts about businesses' financial statement; emphasis on how managers, creditors, and investors can analyze financial accounting information to make investment, financing, and operating decisions. ACCT 2020 - Fundamentals of Acct II (3) (TBR: ACCT 1020). Introduction to measurement and disclosure concepts about cost and profit of products, services, and organizational units; emphasis on how managers can use internal and external information to make resource allocation decisions, to plan and to control investment and make operating decisions. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 2010, MATH 1710 or 1830. ACCT 3011 - Business Law (3) Elements of law and legal principles encountered in business; emphasis on basic law of contracts, sales and secured transactions, negotiable instruments, real and personal property, agency, forms of business organization, suretyship, insurance contracts and torts. ACCT 3110 - Intermediate Accounting I (3) Review of accounting process and financial statements; time value of money; cash and receivables. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 2020. ACCT 3120 - Intermediate Accounting II (3) Inventories; long-term tangible and intangible assets; investments; current and long-term liabilities. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3110. ACCT 3130 - Legal/Social/Political Environ (3) Emphasis on legal, social, and political environment in which business and its executives exist; legal, social, and political forces that affect business operations; lectures and case discussions. ACCT 3310 - Cost Accounting (3) Cost systems, including job order, process, and standard, as management information systems for planning and control. Allocation of indirect costs, preparation of variable budgets, and determination of standard cost variances and their meaning. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 2020. ACCT 3510 - Federal Income Tax I (3) Introduction to the federal income taxation of individuals. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 2020. ACCT 4020 - Accounting Systems (3) Accounting systems analysis and design emphasizing the accounting cycles approach; theory of systems control in an organizational setting; holistic approach of synthesizing the accounting, financing, operating, and production functions where applicable. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3120 and ACCT 3310. ACCT 4130 - Intermediate Accounting III (3) Accounting for income taxes, leases, pensions, shareholders' equity, share-based compensation, earnings per share, statement of cash flows. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3120. ACCT 4211 - Adv Financial Reporting (3) Business combinations; accounting methods for consolidated financial statements; foreign transactions and accounting for foreign subsidiaries; partnership accounting; state and local government accounting. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3120. ACCT 4240 - Audit/Assurance Services (3) Ethics in accounting practices, internal control, auditing standards and procedures, programs of audit of various accounts, reports to clients. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 4020, 4130. ACCT 4241 - Advanced Auditing (3) Auditing of computer-based accounting systems; emphasis on audit software and computer auditing techniques used to evaluate accounting systems controls and test accounting data integrity; nature and use of expert systems in accounting with emphasis on their use as an audit tool. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 4240. ACCT 4250 - Accounting Ethics/Regulation (3) Foundations of ethics including integrity, objectivity, independence, ethical reasoning, ethical decision-making and ethical dilemmas from the point of view of a professional accountant; legal topics, codes of professional conduct relating to accounting profession and accountancy regulatory bodies; related state and national regulatory requirements. Ethical case studies on topics of professional accounting responsibility. COREQUISITE: ACCT 4240. ACCT 4300 - Fin Stmnt Analysis/Hospitality (3) Comprehensive and up-to-date treatment of analysis of financial statements in assessing an organization's risk in decision making. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 2020. ACCT 4520 - Taxation/Bus Entities (3) Introduction to the federal income taxation of corporations, partnerships, estates and trusts. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3510. ACCT 4540 - Govt/Health/Non-Profit (3) Basic accounting and reporting procedures for governmental units, universities and other not-for-profit entities. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3110 or permission of instructor. ACCT 4625 - Internl Acct/IFRS/US GAAP (3) Major similarities and differences between US GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); international issues related to taxation and financial statement analysis. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: ACCT 3120. ACCT 4910 - Problems in Accounting (1-3) Students will conduct approved projects in major area under supervision of faculty. PREREQUISITE: permission of director. ACCT 4911 - Internship in Accounting (1-6) Internship in business organization to gain on-the-job experience. Project to be approved, supervised by departmental faculty member. Credit allowed only after acceptance of report, varies with complexity of duties. PREREQUISITE: 2.75 overall GPA and completed 15 hours in the Upper Division core. ACCT 4996 - Senior Honors Thesis (3) Independent research open only to those students enrolled in the honors program. Thesis supervised by faculty member; approved by the Director of the School. PREREQUISITE: senior standing and permission of the director of the college honors program. Courses Welcome Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Admissions Getting Started Financial Assistance Application Form Networking &amp; Career Development Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Courses Offered Undergraduate Graduate Course Syllabi Publications Contact Us Networking &amp; Career Development Learn more about two important keys to career success! Financial Assistance Looking for financial assistance? Try looking here first! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .