#http://www.memphis.edu/law/programs/health-law-certificate.php
Health Law Certificate - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Home School of Law Programs Health Law Certificate HEALTH LAW CERTIFICATE For more information about the Health Law Certificate, please contact Professor Amy Campbell. Course Requirements 15 Total Credits: (Doctrinal, Experiential Learning, and Writing Requirements) = 8 Core Credits (Doctrinal credits) + 7 Elective Credits (Includes but is not limited to Experiential &amp; Writing credits) Core Credits: Health Law I: Quality and Access (3) Health Law II: Finance and Regulation (2) Administrative Law (3) Note: It is recommended that students complete these three core course requirements in the 2L year because they set a critical foundation on which to build enhanced learning and understanding of general or specific, focus areas of health law. Elective Credits: Health Law Writing Requirement (2-3) Note: Students can fulfill this requirement through completion of a law review note (upon approval of faculty mentor and Institute Director), OR, through Health Law Seminar, Mental Health Law Seminar, or other Seminar with health law-related paper (upon approval of seminar faculty and Institute Director). (This may also meet the Law School's writing requirement.) Experiential Learning (2-4) Note: Students can fulfill this requirement by taking a health law-related clinic (TBA), doing a health law-related externship, or taking another health law-related skills course. (This may also meet the Law School's skills requirement.) Other Electives:* Health-Specific: F Bioethics &amp; the Law (2) TBD Elder Law Health Clinic (4) F/S Externship, Health Law Placement (2-4) TBD Food and Drug Law (2 or 3) TBD Health Care Insurance &amp; Regulation Seminar (2) F/S Health Law Seminar (2 or 3) F Health Policy Practicum (2) TBD Mental Health Law (3) F Mental Health Law Seminar (2 or 3) S Public Health Law (3) Health-Related: F Elder Law (3) TBD Employee Benefits (2) TBD Environmental Law (3) TBD Intellectual Property Survey (3) S Legislation (2 or 3) TBD Nonprofit Organization Tax (3) TBD Patent Law (3) TBD Products Liability (2) S White Collar Crime (2) *F = offered in the Fall term S = offered in the Spring term Non-Course Requirements Students must complete at least twenty-five hours of non-course work related to health law while enrolled in the Certificate program. Permissible activities include doing pro bono work with the Health Law Section of the MBA, assisting MALS with health law fairs, providing pro bono legal services or law related education for health organizations, and other activities in consultation with the Pro Bono Coordinator and the Institute Director. Students should arrange a meeting with the Pro Bono Coordinator to discuss options as soon as enrolling in the Certificate program. Students must also attend an annual meeting held for all students enrolled in the Certificate of Health Law program. Grade Point Requirement To satisfy the requirements of the Certificate in Health Law, each student must demonstrate a successful understanding of the fundamentals of health law by holding a GPA of at least 2.0 and obtaining an overall GPA of at least 2.5 in the building-block courses of Torts I and Torts II, and Constitutional Law. Students must receive at least a 3.0 GPA in all courses taken to satisfy the certificate. To receive the certificate with honors, a student must complete the graded courses to satisfy the certificate with a GPA of 3.5 or higher and receive a grade of Excellent in at least two-thirds of the non-graded coursework taken to satisfy the certificate requirements. When to Enroll Students in good academic standing may enroll after completing one year of full-time law study (or thirty hours as a part-time student). A student may not enroll after registration for his/her final semester of study. How to Enroll A student enrolls by submitting a completed enrollment form (available on TWEN) to the Institute Director. In completing the form, the student must certify that he/she can satisfy the requirements of the certificate program and is committed to fulfilling its requirements. A student will be dropped from the program if he/she fails to meet the requirements. Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .