#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies/UM1762.htm
UM1762 - Payment Card Industry (PCI) Compliance - The University of Memphis The University of Memphis Payment Card Industry (PCI) Compliance POLICIES Issued:&nbsp October 2, 2013 Responsible Official:&nbsp Vice President for Business & Finance Responsible Office:&nbsp Bursar's Office Purpose &nbsp In order to accept credit cards for payment, the University of Memphis is required to comply with standards set forth by the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) and global payment brands. Failure to comply with these standards will jeopardize the University of Memphis&rsquo;s ability to accept credit card payments and could result in substantial fines. This policy establishes authority and responsibility for protecting credit card account information at the University of Memphis and applies to all University employees, students, contractors, consultants, guests, and any other users who process, transmit, or access credit card information on behalf of the University of Memphis. It is the University&rsquo;s Policy not to store credit card data for any reason in any manner. This policy should be used in conjunction with the Cash Handling Guide-Processing Credit Card Transactions , ITS Data Security Policy , and the Red Flag Policy . PCI Data Security Standard &ndash; High Level Overview Build and Maintain a Secure Network 1. Install and maintain a firewall configuration to protect cardholder data 2. Do not use vendor-supplied defaults for system passwords and other security parameters Protect Cardholder Data 3. Protect stored cardholder data 4. Encrypt transmission of cardholder data across open, public networks Maintain a Vulnerability Management Program 5. Use and regularly update anti-virus software or programs 6. Develop and maintain secure systems and applications Implement Strong Access Control Measures 7. Restrict access to cardholder data by business need to know 8. Assign unique ID to each person with computer access 9. Restrict physical access to cardholder data Regularly Monitor and Test Networks 10. Track and monitor all access to network resources and cardholder data 11. Regularly test security systems and processes Maintain an Information Security Policy 12. Maintain a policy that addresses information security for all personnel Definitions Acquirer Entity that initiates and maintains relationships with merchants for the acceptance of payment cards. Also referred to as &ldquo;acquiring bank,&rdquo; &ldquo;acquiring financial institution,&rdquo; &quot;merchant bank&quot; or &ldquo;credit card processor.&rdquo; ASV Acronym for &ldquo;Approved Scanning Vendor.&rdquo; Company approved by the PCI SSC to conduct external vulnerability scanning services. Cardholder Data/Information Personal Account Number (or credit card number), name on the card, expiration date, and Card Validation Code. This information can also be considered any information stored on the magnetic stripe or chip of a payment card that could potentially be used for fraudulent activities. Cardholder Data Includes: Sensitive Authentication Data Includes: Primary Account Number (PAN) Full magnetic stripe data or equivalent on a chip Cardholder Name Expiration Date CAV2/CVC2/CVV2/CID Service Code PINs/PIN blocks CVSS Acronym for &quot;Common Vulnerability Scoring System.&quot; Open industry standard for assessing the severity of computer system security vulnerabilities. Encryption Process of converting information into an unintelligible form except to holders of a specific cryptographic key. Use of encryption protects information between the encryption process and the decryption process (the inverse of encryption) against unauthorized disclosure. Firewall Device or set of devices designed to permit or deny network transmissions based upon a set of rules. Global Payment Brands American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide, and VISA Inc. Merchant For the purpose of the PCI DSS, a merchant is defined as any entity that accepts payment cards bearing the logos of any of the five members of PCI SSC (American Express Discover, JCB, MasterCard or Visa) as payment of goods and/or services. A merchant that accepts payment cards as payment for goods and/or services can also be a service provider, if the services sold result in storing, processing, or transmitting cardholder data on behalf of other merchants or service providers. PCI DSS Acronym for &quot;Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards&quot;. Comprehensive standards and supporting materials to enhance payment card data security. The standards provide a robust security process including prevention, detection and appropriate reaction to security incidents. PCI SSC Acronym for &quot;Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council.&quot; The PCI SSC is led by a policy setting Executive Committee, composed of representatives from the five founding global payment brands and strategic members. The council provides a variety of tools, questionnaires, guidance, FAQ's, training resources and other materials and information to assist organizations seeking to achieve compliance with its standards. QSA Acronym for &ldquo;Qualified Security Assessor.&quot; Company approved by the PCI SSC to conduct PCI DSS on-site assessments. SAQ Acronym for &ldquo;Self Assessment Questionnaire.&rdquo; Tool used by any entity to validate its own compliance with PCI DSS. Scope All system components, people, and processes to be included in a PCI DSS assessment. The first step of a PCI DSS assessment is to accurately determine the scope of the review. Secure Network Isolated and protected network utilized for the processing of credit card data. Service Provider Business entity that is not a payment brand, directly involved in the processing, storage, or transmission of cardholder data. This also includes companies that provide services that control or could impact the security of cardholder data. Examples include managed service providers that provide managed firewalls, IDS and other services as well as hosting providers and other entities. Entities such as telecommunications companies that only provide communication links without access to the application layer of the communication link are excluded. SNMP Acronym for &ldquo;Simple Network Management Protocol.&rdquo; Supports monitoring of network attached devices for any conditions that warrant administrative attention. System Administrator (Department) An individual(s) responsible for the administration and maintenance of their service provider system and user access. Technical Support Staff University of Memphis staff that provides technical support for faculty, staff and students. Technical support includes, but is not limited to, computer hardware, computer software, network connectivity and mobile device support. Two Factor Authentication Method of authenticating a user, whereby two or more factors are verified. These factors include something the user has (such as hardware or software token), something the user knows (such as a password, passphrase, or PIN) or something the user is or does (such as fingerprints or other forms of biometrics). University &ldquo;University&rdquo; refers to the University of Memphis as a whole and includes all units. Un-trusted Network Any network not necessary for the processing and security of credit card data, and maintenance of devices performing those operations. Vulnerability Scan Scan that detects flaws or weaknesses which, if exploited, may result in an intentional or unintentional compromise of a system. PCI Committee The Committee, composed of representatives from ITS, the Bursar's Office, Business and Finance Support Services, among others, charged with coordinating the implementation of this policy. Procedures PCI Scope The PCI Committee will review the University's scope, at a minimum annually and upon any credit card payment process change, any request from the University&rsquo;s acquirer and any changes to PCI regulations. The PCI scope review is based on PCI DSS, *VISA and MasterCard Payment Card Merchant Level as outlined below and the appropriate Self Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ). Upon completion of the SAQ, any remediation will be acted upon immediately and the SAQ will be reevaluated. The University may at any time contract with a QSA to perform a Gap Analysis to determine any compliance gaps that will need to be included in the University PCI scope and any remediation for PCI compliance. The University&rsquo;s Policy not to store credit card data for any reason in any manner will signifiicantly reduce the University's scope. All credit card information should be thought of as highly sensitive and &quot;need to know only&quot; information and should be treated as such. *Based on the global payment brands standards, VISA and MasterCard have the most stringent requirements for determining Merchant Level. Merchant Level Merchant Definition Compliance 1 Merchants processing over 6 million VISA/MC transactions annually (all channels) or Global merchants identified as Level 1 by and Visa region Annual Report on Compliance (ROC) by Qualified Security Assessor (QSA) or Internal Security Assessor (ISA) if signed by officer of the company Quarterly Network Scans by Approved Scan Vendor (ASV) Attestation of Compliance Form 2 Merchants processing 1 million to 6 million VISA/MC transactions annually (all channels) Annual Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) Quarterly Network Scans by ASV Attestation of Compliance Form 3 Merchants processing 20,000 to 1 million VISA/MC e-commerce transactions annually Annual Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) Quarterly Network Scans by ASV Attestation of Compliance Form 4 Merchants processing less than 20,000 VISA/MC e-commerce transactions annually, and all merchants up to 1 million VISA/MC transactions annually Annual Self-Assessment (SAQ) Quarterly Network Scans by ASV if applicable Compliance validation requirements set by merchant bank PCI DSS Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) S cope: SAQ Validation Type Description SAQ 1 Card-not-present (e-commerce or mail/telephone-order) merchants, all cardholder data functions outsourced. This would never apply to face-to-face merchants. A 2 Imprint-only merchants with no electronic cardholder data storage, or Stand-alone terminal merchants, no electronic cardholder data storage B 3 Merchants using only web-based virtual terminals, no electronic cardholder data storage C-VT 4 Merchants with POS systems connected to the Internet, no electronic cardholder data storage C 5 All other merchants (not included in Types 1-4 above) and all service providers defined by a payment brand as eligible to complete an SAQ. D Section 1 - Install and Maintain a Firewall Configuration to Protect Data A. Electronic Communication and Access Traffic is restricted to that which is necessary for the cardholder environment &ndash; all other traffic is denied. Allowed traffic is restricted to the following: SSL encrypted web traffic to credit card processors (Elavon, First Data, or any other authorized credit card processing 3rd party) Anti-virus and security updates 2. Access to credit card processing services will be restricted from all other on-campus networks. B. Connectivity Wireless connectivity will not be used for credit card processing. Connectivity between the card holder environment and all other locations not specified in Section 1.1 Electronic Communication and Access is restricted via a stateful firewall. Section 2 Do Not Use Vendor-supplied Defaults A. Vendor Defaults Vendor supplied defaults must be changed before installing systems on the secure network. This includes, but is not limited to, passwords, SNMP community strings, and elimination of unnecessary accounts. B. Authorized Connectivity, Services, Protocols, and Devices Wireless connectivity is denied. See Section 1 - Install and Maintain a Firewall Configuration to Protect Data &ndash; 1.2 Connectivity. Only services, protocols, daemons, hardware devices, etc. necessary for credit card processing will be enabled. C. Remote Access Administrative remote access will be restricted to UofM Information Technology Services (ITS) personnel. All non-encrypted remote access must be disabled. All non-console administrative access to any devices in the secure network must be strongly encrypted prior to password exchange. Section 3 Protect Stored Cardholder Data A. Storage of Cardholder Data Cardholder data may not be stored in any University system, server, personal computer, e-mail account, portable electronic device (laptop, flash drive, CD/DVD, PDA, cell-phone, tablet, portable hard-drive, etc.) or on paper documents. B. Protecting Cardholder Data Departments/activities must be approved by the Bursar&rsquo;s Office to accept credit card payments and are required to be PCI-DSS compliant at all times. Only approved cash handling staff may receive and process credit card payments. Approved cash handling staff, supervisors and managers are required to attend annual training and complete the &ldquo;Credit Card Security Agreement&rdquo; form. Written credit card data must be secured following appropriate departmental/PCI procedures and must be shredded with a crosscut shredder after payment is processed. Approved departments/activities and their staff must follow procedures approved for their work area to secure any cardholder data in their possession and must adhere to the University&rsquo;s Cash Handling Guide, Cashier Training Guide and PCI procedures. C. Masking Data Any PAN displayed or printed must be masked to display no more than the last four digits. D. Scanning for Credit Card Data The University has deployed a software auditing package to perform quarterly scans of University owned systems to ensure that no credit card data is retained on those systems. The software installed on the local computer performs all scans searching for possible credit card numbers and any results of the scan are logged to a central management console supported by Business and Finance Support Services. At no time are the contents of any files scanned by the software directly accessible from the management console. The only data stored in the software console are the reported match and the location and name of the file. Technical Support Staff will work with their users to review any findings and perform appropriate remediation. Bursar's Office is responsible for monitoring and reviewing quarterly scans and remediation in the PCI network environment. Section 4 Encrypt Transmission of Cardholder Data Across Open, Public Networks A. Security Protocols Strong cryptography and security protocols, such as SSL/TLS, SSH, or IPSEC, will be used to protect all cardholder data transmitted over the network. B. Unacceptable Transmission Methods Cardholder data may not be transmitted via end-user messaging systems, such as but not limited to, chat/instant messaging, text messages, or e-mail. It is the University's policy not to accept any credit card data via any of these methods. Section 5 Use and Regularly Update Anti-virus Software Anti-virus Software Industry standard anti-virus and anti-malware protection software will be installed on all devices in the secure network. Automatic updating of software and virus definitions will be enabled. Periodic scans will be enabled on all devices in the secure network. Audit logs will be enabled and retained for one year. Section 6 Develop and Maintain Secure Systems and Applications Security Patches All system components and software within the secure network will have the latest vendor-supplied security patches installed within one month of release. Section 7 Restrict Access to Cardholder Data by Business Need to Know A. Limited Access Access to system components and cardholder data will be limited to those individuals whose jobs require such access and must be approved by the Bursar&rsquo;s Office. Access rights will be restricted to the least privilege necessary to perform job responsibilities based on job classification and function. Written procedures must be in place to ensure data control and specify required privileges and the purpose for the access privileges. B. Access Authorization and De-authorization Access will be authorized and de-authorized by the Bursar&rsquo;s Office. Each year, during required annual cash receipting training, departments/activities&rsquo; approved cash handling staff, supervisors and managers will be required to fill out the &ldquo;Credit Card Security Agreement&rdquo; form. New cash handling employees will be required to go through training and complete the &ldquo;Credit Card Security Agreement&rdquo; form prior to performing cash receipting duties. The Bursar&rsquo;s Office must approve departments/activities utilizing temporary employees, student workers, volunteers and non-customary cashiers. Upon approval, the individual must sign the &ldquo;Credit Card Security Agreement&rdquo; form prior to accepting credit card payments on behalf of the department/activity. Example: volunteers for an auction phone-a-thon. In the event any user should be de-authorized from credit card processing, the respective department supervisor should contact the Bursar&rsquo;s Office. The Bursar&rsquo;s Office will document the de-authorization and remove cash receipting access if applicable. Section 8 Assign a Unique ID to Each Person With Computer Access Local Access Accounts All users accessing resources within the secure network will do so using individually assigned accounts. Account credentials will not be shared among individuals, and these credentials will be changed on a communicated interval. Remote Access Accounts Two-factor authentication is required for all users for remote access to the secure network. There will be no remote access granted to vendors. Section 9 Restrict Physical Access to Cardholder Data A. Credit Card Data Storage Credit card data is not stored either electronically or hard copy. Hard copy credit card data is crosscut shredded upon completion of processing payment. B. Credit Card Data Controls All access to cardholder data in non-electronic formats will be handled in accordance with the University&rsquo;s Cash Handling Guide, Training Guide and Department/Activity Internal Procedures. Section 10 Track and Monitor All Access to Network Resources and Cardholder Data Logging All activity on the secure network, both by internal and external access, will be logged to a central management point and be protected against unauthorized access. Audit logs will be monitored and retained for 1 year. Section 11 Regularly test security systems and processes A. Inspection of In Scope Environment On a quarterly basis, all components in the secure network will be inspected to verify no unauthorized wireless devices are present. B. Vulnerability Scans External and internal network vulnerability scans will be run quarterly and after any significant changes in network topology, firewall rule modifications, and product upgrades. External scans will be performed by an approved scanning vendor and repeated until no vulnerabilities rated higher than a 4.0 by the CVSS are found. Internal scans will be performed by ITS and repeated until requirements for PCI DSS Requirement 6.2 are met. Section 12 Maintain an Information Security Policy A. PCI Related Policies A Data Security Policy is in effect and is published, maintained, and disseminated to all relevant personnel. This policy will be reviewed annually and updated as needed. Incident Policy - The Incident Response Plan will be maintained by the University's PCI Committee's Incident Response Team. All personnel involved in maintaining and using the credit card processing environment are responsible for the security of the environment and data in their respective job functions. Each department/activity must have detailed internal procedures for cash handling, including the security and processing of credit card data. B. Acceptable Use of Technology Critical technologies, including but not limited to, desktop and laptop computers, thin-clients, removable electronic media, and remote access technology will be limited to the minimum requirements necessary to process credit card data. Use of critical technologies and their configuration requires explicit approval from the Bursar&rsquo;s Office and ITS. Authentication is required to use critical technologies in the PCI secure network. A list of authorized users, critical technologies, and network locations will be maintained by ITS and the Bursar's Office and/or Department System Administrator. Automatic disconnect of sessions for remote-access technologies after a specified period of inactivity will be enabled. C. PCI Training A formal security awareness program is implemented and is required to be completed annually by all personnel involved in cash handling including, but not limited to, credit card processing. D. Service Providers A list of compliant service providers will be maintained, reviewed, and updated annually. Any agreement with applicable service providers will include an acknowledgement of the provider&rsquo;s data security responsibility and PCI DSS compliance requirements. Revision Dates &nbsp UM1762 - Issued: October 2, 2013 Subject Areas: Academic Finance General Human Resources Information Technology Student Affairs &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp