#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/faculty_profiles/s.nelson.php
Steven Nelson - LEAD - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Department of Leadership HIAD LDPS Faculty Home LEAD facultyprofiles Steven Nelson Steven Nelson Associate Professor Phone (901) 678-2368 Email slnlson3@memphis.edu Fax (901) 555-5555 Office Ball Hall, 123F Office Hours About Dr. Nelson Dr. Steven L. Nelson is a first-year professor in the Leadership Department at the University of Memphis. He joins the faculty after serving one year at the University of New Orleans. Dr. Nelson holds a Ph.D in Educational Leadership from the Pennsylvania State University. He also holds a J.D. from the University of Iowa College of Law as well as a M.A.T. from Xavier University of Louisiana. His undergraduate background is in Political Science from the Louisiana State University. Dr. Nelson joins the faculty in the Leadership Department with a wide range of experiences. He taught in the private and public (both traditional and charter) schools in the New Orleans area. During his time as a high school teacher, Dr. Nelson rose to the level of teacher-leader where he dispatched administrative duties that included curriculum design and alignment, behavior intervention and classroom management support and instructional coaching. Dr. Nelson joined the staff at the Southern Poverty Law Center's School-to-Prison Pipeline Project in New Orleans after exiting the traditional role of an educator in the school building. At SPLC, Dr. Nelson worked on charter school law and policy, special education and juvenile justice advocacy and supported students, parents and communities in accessing equitable educational opportunities. Research and Scholarly Activities Research Interests Dr. Nelson's research and teaching interests lie at the intersection of law, policy and politics. He is particularly interested in how law, policy and politics advance or retard efforts at achieving equity in educational systems. The focus of Dr. Nelson's research is typically on school choice models. He has written and published numerous pieces on school choice and educational equity. Dr. Nelson's work has been published in various media including law reviews, education journals and books. Dr. Nelson is an active member of the Education Law Association and frequently presents at national conferences and symposia. Though research and teaching are large parts of his duties at the University of Memphis, Dr. Nelson most enjoys the opportunity to mentor students through the research and writing process. He often coauthors pieces with students. Dr. Nelson also enjoys being mentored and actively seeks new professional and personal mentors. Campus Organizations When not in his professional role, Dr. Nelson is active in the community. He is a member of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc. He has held various appointed positions in his chapter and seizes every opportunity to participate in the organization's Guide Right activities. Dr. Nelson is a member of numerous book clubs, and is seeking to start a critical race theory-based club in the Memphis area. Apply Now Graduate Catalog Need Help? Contact Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .