#http://www.memphis.edu/coe/
COE - COE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Education About Departments Degrees Scholarships Research Alumni Faculty Home COE We started it all. Yes, we did. Back in 1912, when then West Tennessee State Normal School first opened its doors on Central Avenue, students came here to become leaders in education. The power of that vision is even stronger today. Students enter the College of Education at the UofM to become actively engaged in shaping society to be the best that it can be. We are 57 degree programs strong, with 14 research centers and institutes, and partnerships throughout the Mid-South to provide an amazing array of one-of-a-kind opportunities to our students to get real-world experiences. Fewer than 100 U.S. colleges offer what we do Putting our students smack dab in the middle of laboratory schools housed right on the UofM campus is unique and rare. Only 100 universities nationwide share this distinction. Our students work on-site at the Barbara K. Lipman Early Childhood School and Research Institute (for children aged two to Kindergarten) and at the University of Memphis Campus School (serving children from first grade through fifth grade). We proudly demonstrate best practices for our students, so they can become devoted to careers in education, health and human sciences. In Memphis we are driven by doing. Driven to prepare you well. To bring out your passions. To inspire you to initiate change for the betterment of society. That's what Memphis does. Why hire a university of memphis teacher candidate? Because they graduate from the University of Memphis' Ready2Teach Program. Curriculum focuses on Common Core Standards, Formative Assessment, Differentiated Instruction/Assessment, Integration of Technology &amp; Reality-Based Problem Solving. Our curriculum is practitioner focused and reflects the real world of teaching. Yearlong Residency begins when our Partnership Schools begin not when University Classes begin. Our teacher candidates experience in-service week and the first week students begin school. Their teaching is formally observed a minimum of 13 times during the course of the Residency. Our candidates are assessed using district assessment instruments. Partnerships have been developed so our Candidates are placed for one academic year with a PreService Instructive Mentor (PIM) that has demonstrated a positive impact on student achievement and has scored either a 4 or 5 on the teacher evaluation system used in their district. Our candidates learn how to teach from the best teachers. edTPA, a nationally scored performance assessment modeled after the National Board of Professional Teaching Standards, is a graduation requirement. Nationally trained scorers from other states assess our candidates' teaching skills. Why hire a University of Memphis Teacher Candidate? They ARE READY TO TEACH FROM DAY ONE! Research Not only do we have four academic departments offering multiple graduate and undergraduate degrees, we also house three research centers and two laboratory schools. Centers Center for Rehabilitation and Employment Research Center for Research in Educational Policy Center for the Study of Higher Education Schools C ampus School Barbara K. Lipman Early Childhood School and Research Institution Apply to our Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Fall Deadline: July 1, 2015 (domestic); May 2, 2015 (international) Apply to our Masters and Doctoral Programs Earn your Masters Degree from any of our four departments or take your education to the next level with a doctorate degree. COE Online Earn a degree on YOUR time. Contact Us Have questions? Call or email today! Follow Us Online Twitter Facebook Graduate Programs Become a Teacher Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .