#http://www.memphis.edu/lambuth/pdfs/102615f15lambuth_homecoming_rules_regs.pdf
HOMECOMING 2015 LET THE GOOD TIMES ROAR 2 Important Dates and Times Homecoming Entry Forms due pmBanner entries due Saturday, October 31 All Day Respect ive Locations Paint the Town Blue Sunday, November 1 Monday, November 2 Homecoming Kickoff Noon-3 pm 7 pm SAC Comedy Show Tuesday, November 3 Wednesday, November 4 Noon Thursday, November 5 Friday, November 6 Homecoming ParadeHomecoming Concert5:30 pm Following Parade CampusAlumni Mall Lawn Saturday, November 7 Homecoming Game TBA Liberty Bowl HOMECOMING 2015 LET THE GOOD TIMES ROAR 3 Overall Rules and Regulations The theme for the 2015 University of Memphis Homecoming shall be: Let The Good Times Roar Th e following rules , events, and activities were developed by th e 2015 Homecoming Committe e. Please read all rules and regulations carefu lly prior to Homecoming events/activiti es to avoid any misunderstandin g, incorrect interpretation , and possible disqualification from the homecoming events. Any questions should be directed toward the respective coordinator and the .All registered student organizations , religiou s hou ses, residen ce halls, Greek organizations, and any and all students are invited and encouraged to participa te in Homecoming 2015! Team s may also be comprised of multiple organizations, religious houses , and Gree k Organizations! 1.All offic ial homecomin g ent ry forms must b e completed on TigerZone no later than 4:30 pm CST on October . Official homecoming entry forms must be turned in in order to compete. 2.Group s and organization s workin g togethe r must not e their partnership on the official entry forms. Groups and organizations must complete official entry forms individually and must all acknowledge the partnership on entry forms. If an organization is partnered with another organization, they do not necessarily have to enter every competition as partners. .All times and deadlines are strictly enforced. Refer to individual event rules and regulation s for deadlin e information. HOMECOMING 2015 LET THE GOOD TIMES ROAR 4 .All decisions of judges will be kept confidential until the 2015 Homecoming Committee makes its official announcements. All decisions of the judges are final. Moreove rules as they see fit. .Since The University of Memphis is a dry cam drinking or carrying alcoholic beverages during the Homecoming events will be disqualified from the event and may be disqualified from Homecoming Competitions as a whole. Further action may be taken however the homecoming committee sees fit. .Individuals or organizations who fail to adhere to the general rules and regulations must meet with the ..Winners from each event and category will be announced on online via social media .All on-campus locations listed for the have an alternate location. Exactlocations will be publicized closer to event dates if necessary to change location. Please keep in mind that the who le purpose of Homecomin g is to suppor t the Tigers ! Th e focus is to mak e Homecomin g fun and an occasion to brin g th e schoo l and community togeth er. Each competi tion is separate. Participants may pick and choose which competition s th ey participat e in. Participation in on e competition w ill not affect participation in oth er competitions, but all earned point s will be accumulated to determine an overall winn er. Participant s may be group s or individuals. You do not have to b e part of an offic ial Registered Student Organization to participate. Participants may compet e with different group s in competitions (you do not h ave to have on e team fo r all events.) Al l University of Memph is student s are encouraged and welcom e to participat e in all Homecoming events! Thank you for your participation and cooperation! If you have any questions, suggestions, or problems please feel free to contact . HOMECOMING 2015 LET THE GOOD TIMES ROAR 5 Poin t System 1st 2nd 3rd ALL 500 400 300 200 Outlined on specific page 500 400 300 200 Student Banner Voting HOMECOMING 2015 LET THE GOOD TIMES ROAR 6 Banne r Contest Rules & Regulations: First, second, and third place awards will be givens. All entries will be judged on the following criteria: Use of theme/Tiger Spirit Quality of entry Creativity/Originality Overall appearance (neatness, general appeal, etc.) Adherence to rules and requirements Partnering teams please note: Each official partnered organization may only submit one (1) banner. Banner Requirements: 1.Teams must use the fabric provided by the . The fabric may entry forms are turned in. 2.All banners must pertain to the football game vs. Navy, Tiger spirit, and/or the Homecoming 2015 theme Let The Good Time Roar 3.Teams must use waterproof (acrylic) paints. These banners may be displayed to promote Homecoming must be able to withstand weather. No loose glitter may be used. 4.Banners must be turned in ready to hang (i.e. NOT WET) 5.Designs will not be reviewed in advance or pre-approved. The judges have full discretion in judging creativity and originality. If another participant or organization has a similar design, the judges may consider that in the creativity/originality scores. 6.Participants may begin work on their banner at any time. 7.The name of the individual or organization entering the banner in the contest must be attached to the back of the banner, along with the division in which you are participating. 8.A 5x7 empty square must be left in the right upper corner of all banner entries. Deadlines: Those wishing to participate should submit a Banner Contest Entry Form by October , 2015. The banner shall be judged only if it meets all requirements. S will use the banners to promote Homecoming to the University community. is not responsible for the security of the banners. If an individual or organization wishes to keep their Banner Artwork Empty HOMECOMING 2015 LET THE GOOD TIMES ROAR 7 banner after Homecoming, it must be picked up from by Monday, November 9th, by 4:30pm . All remaining banners will be discarded. Competition: On , November th between Noon 3 pm, students will be allowed to come and vote on their favorite banner. The banners will be indicated by numbers placed in the upper right corner of each banner. This will not determine who wins the banner competition; however, the winning banners will receive extra overall points as indicated below. 1st 300 2nd 200 3rd 100 HOMECOMING 2015 LET THE GOOD TIMES ROAR 8 Paint the Halls/Doors/Rows Blue Not a competition for Homecoming Points The lue will promote Tiger Pride and school unity. All departments, facilities, and housing on campus are strongly encouraged to participate in this event. Each participating site should be decorated in Memphis school colors and in accordance with the Homecoming Let the Good Times Roar Sites are encouraged to decorate as much as possible (inside, outside, or around office area) in whatever manner they see best to portray Tiger pride (streamers, window chalk, banners, lights, etc.). Faculty and students may collaborate in this event . Decorations should be displayed throughout the Homecoming celebration weeks. All decorations must comply with building and fire safety codes (i.e.: not blocking fire extinguishers and alarms, emergency doors, air vents, sprinkler systems, lighting fixtures, etc.) The lu will promote Tiger Pride and school unity. All student organizations are encouraged to participate in this event. Each their office doors in Memphis school colors and in accordance with the Homecoming Let the Good Times Roar as possible in whatever manner they see best to portray Tiger pride (streamers, window chalk, banners, etc.). Faculty and students may collaborate in this creative competition. Decorations should be displayed throughout the Homecoming celebration weeks. All decorations must comply with building and fire safety codes (i.e.: not blocking fire extinguishers and alarms, emergency doors, air vents, sprinkler systems, lighting fixtures, etc.) The lue will promote Tiger Pride and school unity. All Greek Row Houses are encouraged to participate in this event. Each house should be decorated in Memphis school colors and in accordance with the Homecoming Let the Good Times Roar uch as possible in whatever manner they see best to portray Tiger pride (streamers, window chalk, banners, etc.) Decorations should be displayed throughout the Homecoming celebration weeks. All decorations must comply with building and fire safety codes (i.e.: not blocking fire extinguishers and alarms, emergency doors, air vents, sprinkler systems, lighting fixtures, etc.) Remember: All decorations must not block fire exits, and must not be in the way of driveways/streets. Also, all windows & doors should be accessible in case of emergency. All decorations should be removed from the houses and put into their trash cans following the end of Homecoming Week - no later than November 8 nd. HOMECOMING 2015 LET THE GOOD TIMES ROAR Competition Being a symbol that represents Tiger spirit and tradition, the Tiger has great history and Baby TJ Competition allows student groups to go on a quest competing against other students in the hunt for small tigers located throughout the University of Memphis campus. 1.Participants must submit ? entry form by 4:30 pm, October 2.The Pursuit will begin , November th at Noon and will end at 3 pm the same day. Participants cannot start searching for tigers until Noon. Any organization or housing residents found to be violating this policy will be disqualified from the event. 3.Tigers will be dropped off in the 4.No tigers will be accepted after 3 pm when bins are collected. To receive credit all tigers must be dropped off at the designated table. 5.Many tigers will be hidden throughout campus, some more obvious than others. Depending on the level of difficulty, points will be awarded on a scale ranging from 1 to 5.A color sticker is placed on the tiger to determine its value. 1.No sticker 5 points 2.Pink 10 points 3.Yellow 15 points 4.Orange 20 points 5.Green 25 Points 6.M emphis trivia clues will be posted throughout the day via twitter, Instagram and throughout the day, so be sure to check Facebook and Twitter periodically throughout the day for hints and locations. 7.Throughout the competition, posts may occur on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook that encourage you to do other various tasks for additional points (i.e. take a picture with a specific tiger.) Photos are worth 5 points each, with a maximum of 20 points per organization / team. Be sure to tag @UofMHomecoming on Twitter and Instagram and HOMECOMING 2015 LET THE GOOD TIMES ROAR TYou MUST participate in the following competitions: * - Enter in to participate in Rules & Regulations : 1. .All participants and representatives are expected to act in a respectful manner. may be cause for forfeit of game. **No harsh language or vulgarity should be used. In all events, participants should focus on positive support of the Memphis Tigers, rather than unsportsmanlike negativism toward our opponents.