#http://www.memphis.edu/law/faculty-staff/d-schaffzin.php
Daniel Schaffzin - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Home School of Law Faculty Daniel Schaffzin Daniel Schaffzin Director of Experiential Learning and Assistant Professor of Law Phone (901) 678-5056 Email dschffzn@memphis.edu Fax Office Law School, Legal Clinic Offices Office Hours CV About Professor Schaffzin Now in his seventh year at The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, Professor Schaffzin is an Assistant Professor of Law and the Law School's Director of Experiential Learning. Professor Schaffzin co-directs and teaches the Neighborhood Preservation Clinic . He also directs the Externship Program and teaches the Externship Seminar. Previously, Professor Schaffzin has taught the Civil Litigation Clinic, the Housing Adjudication Clinic, Trial Advocacy, and Contracts I and II. In 2014, National Jurist magazine recognized the Housing Adjudication Clinic as one of the 15 most innovative law school clinical courses in the country. Since arriving at the Law School, Professor Schaffzin has additionally served as the coach of the National Trial Team. In 2013, the Trial Team won its regional championship and finished as National Semifinalists (final four out of 320 teams) in the prestigious National Trial Competition. Professor Schaffzin is an active contributor to the national clinical teaching community. Presently, he serves on the Planning Committee for the 2016 AALS Clinical Conference and is chairing the Planning Committee for the 2015 Southern Clinical Conference. He also serves as co-chair of the AALS Externships Committee and is a member of the Clinical Legal Education Association's Externships Committee. Prior to joining the Law School faculty, Professor Schaffzin was a Visiting Assistant Professor of Law at the University of North Dakota School of Law, instructing the school's Housing and Employment Litigation Clinic. While at the University of North Dakota Law School, he also coached the school's National Trial Team. In both 2008 and 2009, the UND team won its Regional Championship and advanced to the National Final rounds of the National Trial Competition. Professor Schaffzin began his career at Pepper Hamilton LLP in Philadelphia. At Pepper, he worked for five years as an associate in the firm's Health Effects Litigation Practice Group and focused his practice on pharmaceutical and medical device products liability litigation. Professor Schaffzin also maintained an active pro bono practice, including work on a successful death penalty appeal under the Pennsylvania Post-Conviction Relief Act. He received the Pennsylvania Bar Association Pro Bono Award in 2005. In 2005, Professor Schaffzin joined GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) as Counsel in the pharmaceutical company's U.S. Legal Operations group. At GSK, Professor Schaffzin served on the Sales, Marketing, and Managed Care Legal Team, providing guidance to the company's diabetes franchise and pediatric vaccines product teams, as well as to several sales regions, concerning product promotion, fraud and abuse, and general regulatory compliance issues. Before starting his legal career, Professor Schaffzin served as a public affairs officer at the Embassy of Israel in Washington, D.C. Education J.D. Temple University, 2000 (cum laude); B.A., Temple University, Journalism (magna cum laude), 1996. Admitted Tennessee, Pennsylvania (inactive), New Jersey (retired), North Dakota (inactive). Experience Assistant Professor of Law and Director of Experiential Learning, University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law (January 2011-Present); Visiting Assistant Professor of Law, University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law (August 2009-December 2010); Visiting Assistant Professor of Law, University of North Dakota School of Law (August 2007-May 2009); Counsel, GlaxoSmithKline (2005-2007); Associate, Pepper Hamilton LLP (2000-2005). Courses Taught Current Courses: Neighborhood Preservation Clinic, Externship Course Other Courses Taught: Civil Litigation Clinic, Housing Adjudication Clinic, Trial Advocacy, Contracts Publications So Why Not an Experiential Law School . . . Starting With Reflection in the First Year?, 7 ELON L. REV. 383 (March 2015) (by invitation). Teamwork: Doctors and Lawyers Working Together Could Be Cure for Many, 51 TENN. B. J. 12 (Jan. 2015) (with E. Lay, C. McDaniel, L. Mutrie, A. Seamon, L. Seely, E. Todaro). Warning! Lawyer Advertising May Be Hazardous to Your Health: A Call to Limit Commercial Solicitation of Clients in Pharmaceutical Litigation, 8 CHARLESTON LAW REVIEW 319 (Winter 2013-14) (by invitation), reprinted in 63 DEFENSE LAW JOURNAL 3 (2014). Preaching to the Trier: Why Judicial Understanding of Law School Clinics is Essential to Continued Progress in Legal Education, 17 CLINICAL L. REV. 515 (2011) (with M. Jackson). Landlord Weapon or Tenant Shield? A Proposal to Reform North Dakota's Residential Security Deposit Statute, 85 N.D. L. REV. 251 (2009) (lead article). Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .