#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/graduate/pdfs/school-psychology-doctoral-handbook2015.pdf
SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGY PROGRAM UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS DOCTORAL PROGRAM HANDBOOK 2015 - 2016 Revised September 8 , 2015 Doctoral Handbook 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Pages PART I: Institutional Context and Resources 3 School Psychology Program Faculty 3 Impor tant Contact Information 4 Important Resources and Publications 5 The Program and Institutional Context 6 A. The University of Memphis 6 B. The Department of Psychology 7 C. The College of Education 9 D. The School Psychology Program 9 PART II: Program Philosophy, Objectives, and Curriculum Plan 11 Program Philosophy 11 Goals, Objectives, and Competencies 13 Program of Study 15 Description of Specific Pro gram Requirements 17 A. Subspecialization 17 17 C. Professional Experience and Practicum Experiences 18 D. Dissertation 20 E. Internship 20 PART III: Policies, Expectations, and Other Information 22 A. Advising 22 B. Assessments and Evaluations 22 1. Admission Requirements and Expectations 22 2. Course Assessments 23 3. Annual Review and Portfolio Assessment 23 4. Practicum and Internship Supervisor Evaluations 24 5. Doctoral - Student S upervisor Evaluations 24 6. Comprehensive Examinations 24 7. Practicum/Internship Site Evaluations 27 8. Exit Survey 27 9. Alumni Survey 27 C. Doctoral Forum 28 D. Research Expectations and Research Area Attendance 28 E. Student Resourc es 28 F. Student Rights and Administrative Procedures 30 G. Grades and Retention 31 H. Ethical Behavior and Respect for Diversity 32 Appendix A: Policies And Procedures For The Establishment, Operation, And Maintenance Of The School Psychology Program Committee 36 Appendix B: Degree Plan Worksheet 39 Appendix C: Typical Program of Study 42 Appendix D: Common Practicum Placements 44 Appendix E: Sample Practicum Agreement Form 46 Appendix F: Resources for the Comprehensive Examination 47 Appendix G: Comprehensive Examination Rating Form 49 Doctoral Handbook 3 PART I Institutional Context and Resources School Psychology Program Faculty Dr. Randy Floyd , Profe ssor and Director of the PhD Program Rm. 332 Psychology Bldg. University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152 - 3230 901 - 678 - 4846 Office 901 - 678 - 2579 Fax rgfloyd@memphis.edu Ph.D. 1999, Indiana State University Interests: Psychoeducational assessment, theories of intelligence, academic achievement, and the process and products of publication in peer - reviewed journals Dr. Elizabeth Meisinger , Associate Professor and Associate Director of the PhD Program Rm. 360 Psychology Bldg. University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38 152 - 3230 901 - 678 - 3435 Office 901 - 678 - 2579 Fax bmsinger@memphis.edu Ph.D. 2006, University of Georgia Interests: Academic and behavioral interventions, development of literacy skills, and school mental health Dr. Thomas Fagan , Professor and Director of th e MA/EdS Program Rm. 115 Psychology Bldg. University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152 - 3230 901 - 678 - 4676 Office 901 - 678 - 2579 Fax tfagan@memphis.edu Ph.D. 1969, Kent State University Interests: School psychology foundations, history and development of the fiel d, and demographic characteristics Dr. Xu (Lilya) Jiang , Assistant Professor of Psychology Rm. 306 Psychology Bldg. University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152 - 3230. 901 - 678 - 4473 Office 901 - 678 - 2579 FAX xjiang2 @memphis.edu Ph.D. 2015, University of South Ca rolina Interests: School psychology consultation and interventions, positive youth development, prevention and wellness promotion. Doctoral Handbook 4 Important Contact Information College of Education Dr. Ernest Rakow, Interim Dean, BH 215, 678 - 5495, erakow@memphis.edu Graduate Studies: BH 215, 678 - 2363 Teacher Licensure Office: BH 202, 678 - 1633, Dr. Sutton Flynt, Coordinator, esflynt@memphis.edu or Mary Lanier, 678 - 4309, mlanier@memphis.edu Graduate School Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal, Interim Vice Provost for Graduate Programs, 215 Administration Bldg., 678 - 2531. Shelby Coun ty Schools Dr. Patricia Toarmina, Director of Special Education 2930 Airways, Memphis, TN 38116. 901 - 416 - 5600 toarminap@scsk12.org Dr. Mary Berk: maryrberk@aol.com Dr. Nat alie Wilkins: wilkinsn1@scsk12.org Dr. Shunji Brown - Woods, Director of Coordinated School Health 2800 Grays Creek Dr., Arlington, TN 38002. 901 - 473 - 2658 sbrownwoods@sc sk12.org Dr. Vance Stewart, Mental Health Center Services, Supervising Psychologist. 901 - 473 - 2721 STEWARTGV@scsk12.org TN State Department of Education Andrew Johnson Tower, 7 th Flr., 710 James Robertson Pkwy., Nashville, TN 37243 - 0382, Contact Nathan Travis, 615 - 532 - 6194 or nathan.travis@tn.gov TN Department of Health, Health Related Boards: Psychology Cordell Hull Bldg., 1st Flr., Nashville, TN 37247. (615) 532 - 3202 l ocal or 1 - 800 - 778 - 4123 nationwide - board American Psychological Association 750 First St. NE, Washington, DC 20002 - 4242, 800 - 374 - 2721. National Association of School Psychologists 4340 East west Hwy., Suite 402, Bethesda, MD 20814. 301 - 657 - 0270 Tennessee Association of School Psychologists Contact: Avalyn Bauer , President. avalyn.bauer@mnps.org or Tennessee Psychological Association Contact: Kerry Holland, President w ww.tpaonline.org Doctoral Handbook 5 Important Resources and Publications Department of Psychology, Graduate Program Handbook Department of Psychology http :// This site also connects to related sites in the department and the graduate school. See also links on the right side under School. Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology, & Research The University of Memphis Graduate Catalog The University of Memphis Code of Student Rights and Responsibi lities American Psychological Association Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct Journals Journal of Applied School Psychology Journal of School Psychology Psychology in the Schools School Psychology International School Psychology Quarterly School Psychology Forum Sch ool Psychology Review Canadian Journal of School Psychology Contemporary School Psychology International Journal of School and Educational Psychology Newsletters Communique , National Association of School Psycholog ists The School Psychologist , Division of School Psychology, American Psychological Association The Tennessee School Psychologist , TASP Web Sites for School Psychology Information National Association of School Psychologists: American Psychological Association: American Psychological Association Division of School Psychology: . apadivisions.org/division - 16/index.aspx Tennessee Association of School Psychologists : Doctoral Handbook 6 THE PROGRAM AND INSTITUTIONAL CONTEXT The University of Memphis History . The University of Memphis was foun ded under the auspices of the General Education Bill, enacted by the Tennessee Legislature in 1909. Known originally as West Tennessee Normal School, the institution opened its doors September 10, 1912. In 1925, the name of the college changed to West Ten nessee State Teachers College. The college changed names again in 1941, becoming Memphis State College, and in 1950 graduate studies were initiated. In 1957, the state legislature designated Memphis State full university status. The first doctoral progr ams began in 1966. In 1983, Memphis State University became the first public university in Tennessee to gain accreditation of its entire curriculum. In 1994, MSU became The University of Memphis, and the Ned R. M cWherter Library was completed. Moving into the 21st century, the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management and the FedEx Institute of Technology have made their mark on the University landscape. Today, the University of Memphis is one o f Tennessee's three comprehensive doctoral - extensive institutions of higher learning. Situated in a beautiful park - like setting in the state's largest city, it is the flagship of the Tennessee Board of Regents system. It awards more than 3,000 degrees ann ually. With an enrollment of approximately 21,000 students, The University of Memphis has 24 Chairs of Excellence, more than any other Tennessee university, and five state - approved Centers of Excellence. Mission . The University of Memphis is a doctoral deg ree - granting urban research university committed to excellence in undergraduate, graduate, and professional education; in the discovery and dissemination of knowledge; in service to the metropolitan community, state, and nation; and in the preparation of a diverse student population for successful careers and meaningful participation in a global society. The University of Memphis remains committed to the education of a non - racially identifiable student body and promotes diversity and access without regard t o race, gender, religion, national origin, age, disability, or veteran status. Accreditation . The University of Memphis is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Major Divisions of the University . College of Arts and Sciences ; Fogelman College of Business and Economics ; College of Communication and Fine Arts ; College of Education ; Herff College of Engineering ; University College ; Loewenberg School of Nursing ; School of Audiology and Speech - Language Pathology ; Cecil C. Hu mphreys School of Law ; and the Graduate School . Degrees . 70 concentrations, master's degrees in 45 subjects, and doctoral de grees in 21 disciplines in addition to the Juris Doctor (law) and a specialist degree in education. Library . The university's Ned R. McWherter Library provides one of the most electronically up - to - date information repositories within hundreds of miles. Library collections contain more than 13 million items, which include monographs, periodical volumes, federal and state documents, maps, and manuscripts. Holdings include nearly 3.1 million microformat materials and more than a million bound volumes. Information Technology . The U of M provides state - of - the - art computing facilities for student and faculty use, including a 24 - hour TigerLAN lab . Thirty - five additional labs with more than 700 PC and Macintosh workstations and complement teaching and research. Center and Chairs of Excellence . The University has five state - approved Centers of Excellence: Center for Applied Psychological Research , Center for Earthquake Research and I nformation , Center for Research Initiatives and Strategies for the Communicatively Impaired , Center for Research in Educational Policy , and the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology . There are 25 endowed Chairs of Excellence. Doctoral Handbook 7 The Department of Psychology Mission . Psychology is a major discipline which contributes to the social and natural sc iences. The primary mission of the Department of Psychology is to advance the science and profession of psychology through the production and dissemination of knowledge related to the discipline and through the preparation of academic and professional psy chologists. Consistent with the mission of the Center for Applied Psychological Research (CAPR), departmental emphasis is placed upon department strives to provide high - quality liberal and general education for undergraduate students, a coherent, high - quality program for its majors and graduate students, service courses to students in other majors, and services to the general public. The breadth of the facul in graduate programs in both basic and applied science and in diverse research and scholarly pursuits. excellence in teaching, re search, and service. History and Degrees . Psychology was established as an independent department at The University of Memphis in 1947. Authorization to award the master's degree was granted in 1960, and the first such degree was granted in 1962. The Ph. D. program in psychology was established in 1966. Each year, there are approximately 50 doctoral students in Clinical Psychology, 40 doctoral students in Experimental Psychology, and 11 doctoral students in School Psychology enrolled. The training progra m in Clinical Psychology has been fully accredited by the American Psychological Association since 1972. There are about 35 students enrolled in the Master of Science in General Psychology (MSGP) program and 25 in the Master of Arts/Educational Specialist (MA/EdS) program. Graduate students have a voice in policy and decision - making through elected representatives to the department, and students are full members of several committees in the department. Facilities . The Department of Psychology occupies a building of 88,000 square feet on the main University campus. This four - story structure contains two complete floors of animal and human research laboratories allowing all types of psychological investiga tion, a clinic ( Psychological Services Center , discussed later in this section ), undergraduate laboratories, a data analysis center, classrooms, and offices for all Psychology Department faculty and full - time graduate students. Classrooms are modern and equipped with computer, projection equipment, and internet access. The department's laboratories and clinic are outfitted completely with modern equipment sufficient for faculty or studen t research or training activities. The university maintains a modern computer center with numerous networked connections in the Department of Psychology. Student access to this system is readily available. The department owns a large number of computers, which are networked within the department. Wireless internet access is available to faculty and students in all campus instructional buildings. The department also houses two computer laboratories that are used for both research and teaching. The Psycho logical Services Center at the University of Memphis offers a wide range of services to the university and the general public. The Center is the training and service delivery unit of the hology. Psychological and psychoeducational assessment, consultation, and intervention services are provided by advanced Ph.D. candidates who are directly supervised by Clinical and School Psychologists from the Memphis community and the University faculty . Center of Excellence . Founded in 1984, the Center for Applied Psychological Research (CAPR) is one of the original Tennessee Centers of Excellence, now designated an Accomplished Center of Excellence. The CAPR faculty have attracted millions of dollars in extramural funding to the State of Tennessee, published hundreds of scholarly works, graduated hundreds of master's and doctoral students and many times that number of undergraduates, been elected or appointed to many national professional offices, and won numerous local and national honors and awards. The primary CAPR goals are (a) to achieve national prominence for its accomplishments, (b) to increase the number of trained psychologists able to conduct, disseminate, and apply such research, and (c) to secure Doctoral Handbook 8 extramural funding to facilitate research and training. In addition, as part of a Psychology Department in a major urban research university, CAPR supports the general teaching, research, and service missions of the department and university. Cen ter funds are also used to sponsor major conferences that allow top psychologists from this country and throughout the world to visit our department. The primary mission of the CAPR at The University of Memphis is to support psychological research. A prima ry focus of this mission is the application of psychological knowledge to finding solutions to individual and social problems local, regional, and national. Therefore, CAPR research focuses extensively on problems concerning health, mental health, educati on, schools, crime, the environment, and children and their families. In addition to increasing our capacity for generating new approaches to applied problems, CAPR also supports basic scientific research in cognitive psychology, biopsychology, social psy chology, developmental psychology, and research design and statistics. Collaboration . Faculty and graduate students conduct independent research and work on collaborative research projects in numerous community agencies, including the Shelby County Schools ; the Boling Center for Developmental Disabilities; the Veterans Administration Medical Center; the Arlington Developmental Center; the Departments of Psychiatry, Community Medicine, Pediatrics and Preventive Medicine at the University of Tennessee Center for the Health Sciences - Memphis; St. Jude Research Hospital; the Memphis Mental Health Institute; agencies and departments of the City of Memphis; the University's Center for Student Development; and several community agencies. Administrators o f these agencies are receptive to making their facilities and subject populations available for diverse psychological research projects. Several distinguished scholars in psychology and related areas visit the department each year to present colloquia and workshops to faculty and students. The speakers represent a variety of current subject areas within psychology. Additionally, the local chapters of Sigma Xi and other campus and community groups often invite scholars in psychology and related discipline s to Memphis. Research Areas . The psychology faculty, students, and programs are spread over 6 research areas: Clinical Health Psychology; Behavioral Neuroscience; Child and Family Studies; Cognitive Psychology; Industrial/Organizational Psychology; and Ps ychotherapy Research. All faculty and students in the school psychology program are affiliated with the Child and Family Studies area. The Child and Family Studies research area is the most diverse in the psychology department. Faculty from all three doc toral programs (Clinical, Experimental, and School) are members, including child - clinical, developmental, and school psychologists. The common core of interests in this research area is a commitment to examining age - related changes in biological, cognitiv e, and social functioning. Basic and applied research projects are conducted in a variety of settings such as schools, homes, and day care settings. The faculty focus particularly on the ages from early childhood through adolescence. Specific research i nterests include family and peer relations, social cognition, behavior therapy with children, psychological and educational assessment, exceptional children, and historical development of school psychology. Area psychologists are welcome to attend all wee kly meetings of the group and often make presentations at these meetings. Doctoral Handbook 9 The College of Education Teacher education has been a strong mission since the University was founded as a normal school in 1912. The College of Education is dedicated to prepar ing students for careers in a variety of professional and related occupational areas. Four academic departments make up the College of Education : Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research; Instruction and Curriculum Leadership; Health and Sport Scie nces; and Leadership. Two departments offer undergraduate degrees, and all departments offer a variety of graduate degree programs. School psychology students take courses in several of these departments, including the areas of counseling, educational ps ychology and research, educational leadership, reading, and special education. The College of Education also has several research and service units: Advising and Student Services, The Center for Higher Education, The Reading Center, The Center for Rehabil itation and Employment Research The Center for Research in Educational Policy, Bureau of Sport and Leisure Commerce, Human Performance Laboratory, Exercise Biochemistry Laboratory, Motor Behavior Laboratory, Exercise and Sport Nutrition Laboratory, Wellnes s Evaluation and Resource Unit, The Barbara K. Lipman Early Childhood School and Research Institute, and the University Campus School. The School Psychology Program The most eventful era of the history of the School Psychology Program at The University of Memphis has been after 1975, and its history closely tied to those of the Department of Psychology and the College of Education . The present jointly sponsored MA/EdS program (sponsored by both the Department of Psychology and the College of Education ) was formally initiated in 1976. This degree program was an outgrowth of changes in the requirements for Tennessee State Department of Education certification (now licensure) of school psychologists in Tennessee (circa 1975) and the need for a revised school psychology program at what was then called Memphis State University. The revised program, a 45 - semester hour MA degree, was developed by a School Psychology Coordinating Committee, established at the request of the Vice President for Academic Affairs. Th e new MA program was the first instance of a school psychology specific degree and the hiring of faculty in the area of school psychology. Dr. Thomas Fagan, the first bona fide school psychologist faculty member, was hired for the 1976 - 77 school year. Dr . Bruce Bracken served from 1986 1999, and Dr. Wendy Naumann served from 1998 - 2001. Dr. Randy Floyd joined the program in 2001 - 2002. Dr. Robin Hojnoski served from 2002 - 2006. Dr. Elizabeth Meisinger joined the faculty in 2007 - 2008, and Dr. Xu (Lilya) Jian g joined the faculty in 2015 - 2016. Drs. Fagan, Floyd, Meisinger, and Jiang constitute the core program faculty and are supported by faculty in other areas of the Psychology Department; the College of Education ; and local practitioners who assist in field and practicum supervision. The doctoral program was initiated in 1991 and was fully governed by the policies of the Psychology Department's Ph.D. major. Program curricula and requirements for the doctoral program were determined by the Psychology Departme nt faculty. In 2015, a program governing committee, called The School Psychology Program Committee (SPPC), was formed (see Appendix A for policies and procedures for the establishment, operation, and maintenance of the SPPC). The School Psychology Progr am is externally reviewed by several agencies at different intervals. The School Psychology Program is accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA; as of March 28, 2014), and its next accreditation site visit will be held in 2021. Information about APA accreditation can be found by contacting the Commission on Accreditation of the American Psychological Association at the Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation; 750 First Street, NE; Washington, DC 20002 - 4242; Phone: 202 - 336 - 5979 ; a nd TDD/TTY: 202 - 336 - 6123. The program is listed in the APA Guide to Graduate Study in Psychology and ident ified as a Designated Psychology Program according to the criteria of the National Register of Health Services Providers in Psychology and the Association of State and Provincial Psychology Boards (see Doctoral Handbook 10 - links/doctor al - programs/approved - doctoral - programs - by - jurisdiction/) . The Southern Association of Schools and Colleges provides a general review of all University of Memphis academic programs, emphasizing the undergraduate programs. The University Graduate School and State Board of Regents require a review of graduate programs every 10 years unless a program is approved by a national accreditor. In addition, the program routinely receives feedback from students and supervisors through semester advising, periodic eval uations, examinations, and follow - up surveys of graduates. Doctoral Handbook 11 Part II Program Philosophy, Objectives, and Curriculum Plan Program Philosophy Since the foundation of American public education, a societal emphasis has been placed on schools to provide a be tter future for children through a life - long educative process. In their professional roles, school psychologists are sensitive to the needs of a culturally diverse community, value the importance of children to the future of society, and advocate on the behalf of children. As an integral part of human services available to children, adolescents, adults, and families, school psychologists function across multiple settings with a focus on educational institutions. School psychologists provide varied servi ces, such as psychoeducational assessment, consultation, counseling and other interventions, inservice education, administrative services, research, and evaluation. The primary distinction that separates school psychology from other psychological specialt ies is the combining of education and psychology in the study and delivery of services to children, youth, families, and learners of all ages. The additional focus of education to this area of psychology stems from the assumption that schools play a primar y nurturing and socializing role in the lives of all individuals. School psychologists focus on the natural ecologies of children, youth, families, learners, and persons involved in schooling as well as the process of schooling in multiple settings. (See ) Because they receive training in both education and psychology, school psychologists are in a unique position to coordinate educat ional, psychological, and behavioral health services to learners across the life span. The curriculum of our program is an integrated course of study in areas of psychology and education (in addition to a core of school psychology courses) that contribute s to the preparation of school psychologists. The overall philosophy of the school psychology program at The University of Memphis is based on an ecological, evidence - based model that focuses on the multiple systems in which children exist. This perspecti ve recognizes the complex interaction of person variables within and across multiple systems. This philosophy also acknowledges that the manner in which problems are defined influences the subsequent use of assessment and intervention strategies. Using B system analysis is driven by the following premises: a. The client is not only the center of the ecological model but also an active part icipant who brings multiple dynamics to the model. These variables (e.g., biological and genetic make - up, internal representations of psychological constructs, and metacognition) demonstrate that to some extent, behavior is under the control of the client and that the client possesses the ability to rationally reflect on and modify his/her interaction with the environment. b. The context in which the client resides includes multiple systems that have both direct and indirect influences. The microsystem includes immediate environments such as home, school, and community. Larger systems, such as the cultural and political context of the community (e.g., includes int eractions between the client and the microsystem and the larger systems. c. A reciprocal relationship exists between client and system. The client acts on the environment exerting control and influence over variables in the immediate and larger systems. Also, the multiple contexts in which the client resides influence the psycho - social development, adjustment and educational experiences, and performance of the client. d. School psychologists intervene in the ecology in multiple ways. For existing conce rns, problems are defined with information related to the client, the multiple contexts, and the interaction between the client and context. This information guides the practice of school psychology, including prevention, assessment, and intervention serv ices. Doctoral Handbook 12 e. Additionally, school psychologists provide services that assist in the creation of healthy individuals and systems. These services focus on wellness and maintenance of healthy environments and individuals. The overarching program model reflects the scientist practitioner approach that balances knowledge and competencies in both research and practice (Frank, 1984; Raimy, 1950). Students draw upon the scientific literature to make decisions regarding practice with a focus on evidence - based service s. Students are also instructed regarding basic program evaluation techniques and treatment monitoring and evaluation in order to determine the effectiveness of their assessments and interventions. Students are taught to use a scientific problem - solving mo del to make clinical decisions by operationalizing problems, identifying appropriate data collection techniques, analyzing and interpreting data collected, and utilizing the findings to determine the target variables for intervention. Students are also tra ined in design and statistical techniques to become producers of scientific knowledge for the practice of school psychology. The doctoral program seeks to prepare school psychologists whose contributions will be through research and academic careers, fut ure trainers of school psychologists, and future leaders in ans in comprehensive school and mental health settings, and supervisors of others who provide educational and psychological services to children, adolescents, and families. The doctoral program also seeks to produce students who have specialized skills des igned to match their interests and perceptions of training needs. The overall goal of the doctoral program is that students will complete the requirements of the program, obtain credentialing for school - based practice, and become licensed for independent practice as psychologists and health service providers. Doctoral Handbook 13 Goals and Objectives of Doctoral Training and Competencies Expected of Students Goal #1: To produce graduates who demonstrate knowledge of broad psychological principles Objectives for Goal #1 : Students will understand the biological, cognitive, affective, and social influences on behavior. Students will have knowledge of the history and systems of psychology. Competencies Expected for these Objectives: Students will demonstrate understandin g of the biological influences on behavior. Students will demonstrate understanding of the cognitive influences on behavior. Students will demonstrate understanding of the affective influences on behavior. Students will demonstrate understanding of the soc ial influences on behavior. Students will demonstrate understanding of the history and systems of psychology. Goal #2: To produce graduates who demonstrate an understanding of professional issues and meet standards of professional conduct for the practi ce of school psychology Objectives for Goal #2: Students will understand historical and current professional issues and practices guiding the field of school psychology. Students will demonstrate professional and interpersonal behaviors congruent with th e practice of psychology. Competencies Expected for these Objectives: Students will use knowledge of major issues in the history of the field and legal and ethical guidelines in their service to children, families, and others. Students will display perso nal characteristics and work habits consistent with professional standards in their service to children, families, and others. Students will display appropriate responses to supervision. Students will demonstrate the sensitivity and skills needed to work w ith individuals of diverse characteristics. Students will display skills in supervising others. Goal #3: To produce graduates who demonstrate relevant competencies for the professional practice of school psychology Objectives for Goal #3: Students wi ll understand the theoretical foundations of and empirical support for assessment techniques targeting individual differences in cognitive, academic, behavioral, affective, and social functioning. Students will understand the theoretical foundations of and empirical support for various consultation models and direct interventions for academic, behavioral, affective, and social problems. Competencies Expected for these Objectives: Students will demonstrate competency in completing high - quality assessments that facilitate diagnosis or special education eligibility as well as intervention development. Students will demonstrate competency in completing consultation activities with teachers, parents, students, and other professionals in the areas of problem ide ntification, problem analysis, treatment development and implementation, and outcomes evaluation. Students will demonstrate competency in identifying, implementing, and evaluating a range of appropriate empirically validated intervention strategies for beh avioral, affective, social, and academic problems. Students will demonstrate an understanding of how cultural differences may affect assessment, consultation, and intervention practices and adjust the provision of services accordingly. Goal #4: To produ ce graduates who are consumers and producers of research and who understand psychology as a science Objectives for Goal #4: Students will understand the methods and process of scientific inquiry, including application of research designs and statistics. Students will understand how to use research to inform the practice of psychology. Students will contribute to the scientific community. Competencies Expected for these Objectives: Students will demonstrate knowledge of research design, methodology, and statistics. Students will use research findings to guide selection of the most empirically supported assessment instruments, consultation models, and intervention techniques. Students will complete original research projects. Students will contribute to th e scientific community via professional presentations and publications. Doctoral Handbook 15 Program of Study The following requirements are designed in accordance with the expectations for national program approval as well as accreditation by the American Psychological Ass ociation and for achieving state and national credentialing and licensure. Therefore, electives or alternate courses for requirements must be chosen only with the approval of program faculty. Students should complete the Degree Plan Worksheet (see Appendix B) with the Program Director (within the first two years in the program) or major professor (after completing the first 2 years in the program). A typical program of study is included in Appendix C. Note that, due to Graduate School requirements, students should enroll in 7000 - - level courses after Recognizing the importance of traditional and emerging instructional methodologies for the completion of curriculum require ments, the program will allow up to two courses taught using distance education methodologies to be applied to the fulfillment of program requirements. Enrollment in such courses must receive prior approval of the Program Director for students enrolled in the program or, for such courses already completed, approval of the Program Director at the time of program entrance. This policy will be reviewed periodically as a means of keeping up - to - date with on - line offerings and the need for flexibility in trainin g practices. 1. Summary of Degree Areas Hours Required a. Departmental Core 15 b. Breadth of Psychology 12 c. School Psychology Concentration 40 c. Subspecialization 6 - 12 3 e. Practicum & Internship 18 f. Dissertation 6 - 9 Total Hours 100 - 109 2. Description of Curriculum a. Departmental Core (15 hrs) PSYC 7000 History and Systems of Psychology (3) PSYC 7301 Research Design & Methodology (3)* PSYC 7302 Advanced Statistics in Ps ychology I (3)* 2nd stat/quant course approved by department (3)* 3rd stat/quant course approved by department (3) Note. * To be completed in first 2 years of residency. b. Breadth of Psychology (12 hrs) PSYC 7207 Developmental Psychology (3) PSYC 7217 Social Psychology (3) PSYC 7701 Behavioral Neuroscience (3) PSYC 7407 Cognition and Emotion (formerly listed as PSYC 7503) (3) Doctoral Handbook 16 c. School Psychology Concentration (40 hrs.) School Psychology Foundations (28 hrs.) PSYC 7800 Introduction to School Psychol ogy (3)* PSYC 7802 Children with Disabilities & Families (3)* PSYC 7803 Psychoeducational Assessment I (4)* PSYC 7804 Psychoeducational Assessment II (3)* PSYC 7805 Psychological Consultation (3)* PSYC 7806 Interventions in School Psychology (3)* PSYC 7416 Child Psychopathology (3) PSYC 7434 Clinical Psychotherapies: Appreciating Our Differences (3) OR COUN 7750 Multicultural Counseling (3) PSYC 7304 Measurement Theory and Psychometrics (3), EDPR 7511 Measurement and Evaluation (3), OR EDPR 7512 Psychometr ic Theory and Educational Applications (3) Educational Foundations (12 hrs) EDPR 7151 Individual Differences in Learning (3) SPED 7000 Introduction to Exceptional Learners (3) LEAD 6000 Foundational Studies: Education, School, & American Society (3) RDNG 7541 Advanced Assessment of Reading Performance (3) Note. * To be completed in first 2 years of residency. d. Subspecialization (12 hrs) A minimum of 12 hours (to be selected in consultation with the student's major professor ) is used to complete a subspecialization. Two courses (6 hrs.) required in the departmental core area, breadth of psychology area, and school psychology concentration areas may count toward the subspecialization. e. PSYC 799 6 (3) f. Practicum & Internship (18 hrs) PSYC 7614a Assessment Practicum in School Psychology (3)* PSYC 7614b Consultation and Intervention Practicum in School Psychology (3)* PSYC 8809 Advanced Practicum in School Psychology (6) PSYC 8999 Predoctoral Internship (6, categorized as "EX" for externship with a designated grade of "NC" for non - credit. ) Note. * To be completed in first 2 years of residency. g. Dissertation (6 - 9 hrs) PSYC 9000 * No less than 6 nor more than 9 hours of dissertati on credit may count toward degree requirements. Once the student has registered for dissertation hours, then continuous enrollment in PSYC 9000, for a minimum of one hour each fall and spring semester, is required until the dissertation has been defended. Students are not required to enroll in dissertation hours in the summer, unless the dissertation is defended during the summer term. Thus, as evident in the typical program of study (Appendix C), students usually enroll for 3 hours of credit during the spr ing semester before beginning the internship year and then 1 hour of credit during the fall, spring, and summer semesters of their internship year. Doctoral Handbook 17 3. Enrollment Requirements Prior to internship, students are expected to pursue graduate work on a ful l - time basis (9 semester hours each semester) during the fall and spring semesters of study. Students should plan to graduate in the semester in which the internship officially ends, usually the summer semester (assuming the dissertation has been completed ). regulations related to the Guidelines and Principles, the program requires a minimum of three full - time academic years of graduate study (or equivalent), and a one - year internship before the P h.D. is awarded. At least two of the academic training years must be completed at the University of Memphis with the student in full - time residence at the University. This residency requirement has two primary purposes: student development and socializatio n, and student assessment. With regard to student development, residency allows students (1) to concentrate on course work, professional training, and scholarship; (2) to work closely with professors, supervisors, and other students; and (3) to acquire the habits, skills, and insights necessary for attaining a doctoral degree in psychology. With regard to student assessment, it allows faculty, training staff, supervisors, and administrators to execute their professional, ethical, and potentially legal oblig ations to assess all elements of student competence. Students typically complete the program in 5 years, including the internship (see OOOOO ). Degrees are awarded after completion of all program requirements, including the internship. DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS Subspecialization Students are required to complete 12 hours of coursework towards a subspecialization, of w hich two courses (6 hrs.) required in the departmental core area, breadth of psychology area, and school psychology concentration areas may be counted. The specific coursework is flexible but must or. Students often select practicum placements that align with their subspecialization, and they may use that practicum coursework towards completing the requirement. Subspecializations have included, but are not limited to, psychological interventions, pe diatric psychology, statistics and measurement, and applied behavior analysis. Students are required to complete a quantitative or qualitative research project as part of the M.S. degree. This master's thesis should ideally be proposed by the end of the first year of study and completed by the end of the second year, but many students propose their thesis in the fall of their second year and defend in the fall of their third year. A thesis completed as part of a master's degree taken elsew here must be reviewed and accepted by the program by the end of the first semester of doctoral study. Thesis requirements appear in the Department of Psychology Graduate Program Handbook ( ) . Research topics are chosen in education. Students must register for thesis hours under their advisor during the semester in which they plan to defend their thesis. Per univ ersity guidelines, once the student has registered for thesis hours, then continuous enrollment for a minimum of one hour each fall and spring semester is required until the thesis has been defended. Students are not required to enroll in thesis hours in t he summer unless the thesis is defended during the summer term. Doctoral Handbook 18 Professional Experience and Practicum Experiences The Professional Experience (PE) requires that each doctoral student volunteer one half - day (or equivalent) per week to work with a local school psychologist. The PE continues throughout the fall semesters of the first year of training. Supervision is provided by local school psychologists who The primary purpose the PE is to familiarize students with the educational system as a whole and to expose them to alternative roles and functions of school psychologists. Practica. In addition to the PE, students complete four practica prior to internship. I t is expected that students will generate a minimum of 1,000 hours of practicum experiences during predoctoral training. A minimum of 200 hours is required in the first - year assessment practicum, 250 hours in the second - year intervention and consultation p racticum, and 550 hours across the two advanced practica completed in years 3 and 4. Approximately 25% of these hours should be direct contact hours. A minimum of one hour of clinical supervision each week is required. However, the supervision required for a given practicum experience should be commensurate with the complexity of the work and developmental level of the student. Supervision is provided by individuals holding a doctorate in school psychology or a related field and who are licensed health serv ice providers. However, students may shadow a certified school psychologist during their Profession Experience (PE) described above. Students should follow Association of Psychology Postdoctoral and Internship Centers ( APPIC; ) guidelines in preparing logs of their practicum experiences. They may employ customized Excel spreadsheets or commercially available web interfaces, such as My Psych Track; ypsychtrack.com/ ). (Go to - match - steps.aspx for more information about tracking practicum hours). The first practicum (PSYC 7614a) is tak en during the assessment sequence (PSYC 7803 and 7804) in the first year, and the second practicum (PSYC 7614b) is taken during the intervention and consultation sequence (PSYC 7805 and 7806) in the second year. The sequential placement of the practica ens ures a connection between psychoeducational assessment and intervention and consultation roles and functions. The first - year practicum requires completion of assessment cases in both The University of Memphis Psychological Services Center and the Shelby C ounty Schools (or another local education agency) as well as engagement in benchmarking assessment and progress monitoring in a local elementary school. The second - year practicum requires students to complete consultation, counseling, and prevention activ ities in local schools and community agencies. Two advanced practica (associated with PSYC 8809) are completed during the third and fourth years, allowing students to gain greater breadth and depth in their clinical experiences. Students often select prac ticum placements that align with their subspecialization, and they may use that practicum coursework towards completing that requirement. Common placements for the advanced practicum include The University of Memphis Psychological Services Center, the Shel by County Schools Head Start program, the Shelby County Schools Threat Assessment Team, St. Jude Hospital , the Achievement School District, the Exchange Club Family Center, the University of er for Developmental Disabilities, and local school districts. A list of common placement sites is included in Appendix D. Letters of agreement between the student and practicum site are required prior to the student practicum placement. This practicum a greement details the roles and expectations of the experience, including a description of the clinical training activities and supervision to be provided. These advanced practica are coordinated by the Associate Director, Dr. Beth Meisinger, and a practicu m agreement form must be completed before beginning the practicum (see Appendix E). Students should coordinate and register for these practicum courses under her direction. During their third and fourth years of training and while registered for practicum hours, students are expected to engage in vertical supervision involving first - Doctoral Handbook 19 students completing assessment cases in a university - based clinic during each spring semester. They participate in weekly group supervision ses sions with less advanced students, coordinate individual supervision sessions with less advanced students, and meet in group - based supervision - of - supervision sessions every other week. Although students in the their third and fourth years of training rece ive weekly individual supervision from their on - site practicum supervisors, they also participate in a monthly forum with the Program Director on campus in the Psychology Department. These group meetings provide an opportunity for the discussion of cases a students also facilitate open communication regarding any issues related to the practicum experi ence. Practicum Credits and Evaluation. Students are required to register for at least one practicum (3 hrs.) course per year, but they may take additional credits across semesters as needed. Practicum students are provided grades (S, U, or IP) for each ex perience. Continuation in the program is contingent on an overall satisfactory grade (S) in each practicum. St udents are rated by the supervisor on several areas including Personal Characteristics, Work Habits, Administrative and Legal Ethical Practices, R esponse to Supervision, Assessment, Intervention, Consultation, and Research and Evaluation. These ratings provide information on specific student characteristics, dispositions, and relevant training domains. Students also evaluate and rate their practicu m experiences for program evaluation purposes. A student may receive a grade of Unsatisfactory for a practicum if (a) the field - based supervisor reports that students are not meeting the expectation for the practicum or internship experience on the Practi cum/Internship Student Evaluation Form or (b) fail to complete the requisite number of hours associated with the experience. Legal Requirements. Effective July 1, 2007, Tennessee state law requires background checks for all graduate students who are assign ed to field and clinical placements where direct interaction with children and adolescents in school and related settings is involved. There is a $42.00 fee to secure this background check. For inquiries regarding background checks, please call Tennessee B ureau of Investigation at 615 - 744 - 4095. Follow these steps to schedule your complete the background check: A. Registration and Payment 1. Go to the website . 2. Select Tennessee as your state. 3. Select on line scheduling to make your appointment. 4. - DCS Child Care/ 5. - 6. Enter the ORI Number: TNCC79121 7. The next screen will ask you if you want to be fingerprinted for The University of Memphis rect ORI Number. 8. You will then enter your zip code, select a site, and complete your fingerprinting application. B. Fingerprinting 1. your fingerprinting to the site where you scheduled your appointment. 2. Upon completion, your results will be sent directly to the University of Memphis Office of Teacher Education . Li ability I nsurance . Students are required to carry student liability insurance . The Psychology Departmen t purchases a group student liability policy that covers all students enrolled in the school psychology program. The Associate Director , Dr. Meisinger, will email documentation regarding this policy to students each fall semester. Clinical supervisors may require copies of this documentation prior to the initiation of a practicum or internship experience, so students should retain a copy of this documentation. Doctoral Handbook 20 Dissertation Students are required to complete a quantitative or qualitative research project for their dissertations. The doctoral dissertation must be proposed by the end of the spring semester of the year preceding the internship; typically students propose their dissertations the fall of the fourth year of study. It is preferred that data collect ion for the dissertation be completed before the internship begins. Dissertation requirements appear in the Department of Psychology Graduate Program Handbook ( ) . Research topics are decided upon in consult ation with the student's advisor and may be drawn from a wide range of areas within psychology and education. Students register for dissertation hours under their advisor. Per university guidelines, once the student has registered for dissertation hours, then continuous enrollment for a minimum of one hour each fall and spring semester is required until the dissertation has been defended. Students are not required to enroll in dissertation hours in the summer unless the dissertation is defended during the summer term. Internship Students are required to complete a 2,000 - hour internship, preferably in the specialty of school psychology. Students are encouraged to seek internship sites consistent with their professional interests, career objectives, and nati onal standards. For example, students who are interested in becoming a Nationally Certified School Psychologist should complete at least 600 hours in a school setting. School systems, community mental health centers, and hospitals may provide appropriate c ontexts for internship sites, depending on the interests and objectives of the student. It is expected that students will grow professionally throughout their internship year and that they will refine their skills in providing psychological assessment, con sultation, and intervention services to children, adolescents, and their families. During the fall and spring semesters of their internship year, students should register for PSYC 8999 for 3 hours credit (see Appendix C). This course is categorized as "EX " for externship with a designated grade of "NC" for non - credit. There are no fees associated with this course number. The rationale is to allow students to continue enrollment and also to continue deferment on student loans until graduation. Students are also encouraged to seek APPIC - accredited internships ( ), preferably those also accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA; - state.aspx ). In the event that a student is unable to pursue an APPIC - accredited internship, the internship site must conform to the Council of Directors of School Psychology Progr ams (CDSPP) guidelines ( - internship - guidelines ). In recent years, students have completed these APA - accredited internships: the Mu nroe Meyer Institute, Nebraska Consortium; Lewisville Independent School District, Texas; Louisiana School Psychology Internship Consortium, New Orleans; North Suburban Special Education District, the Illinois State Psychology Internship Consortium; and th e Omaha Public Schools, Nebraska Consortium. Students typically apply for internships during their fourth year (or equivalent) in the program. Students must have completed their comprehensive examination before applying for the internship. Students are enc ouraged to follow APPIC guidelines in preparing logs of their practicum experiences to prepare for the application process, and during their third year of study, to begin reviewing application requirements described on the APPIC website ( ). Program faculty maintain readings on internships and a copy of the Directory of Internships for Doctoral Students in School Psychology , prepared by the Joint Committee on Internships (CDSPP, Division 16 - APA, NASP). S tudents should consult Internships in Psychology: The APAGS Workbook for Writing Successful Applications and Finding the Right Fit by Carol Williams - Nickelson , Mitchell J. Prinstein , and W. Gregory Keilin , which is updated frequently. Doctoral Handbook 21 A formal plan of internship should be approved by the student, supervisor, and Prog ram Director. The student should plan to graduate when internship officially ends, usually in the summer (assuming the dissertation has been completed). Doctoral Handbook 22 PART III Policies, Expectations, and Other Information Advising Advising of first - year and second - year students is done by the Program Director to determine the schedule of work for the first year, transfer credits, assistantship assignment, etc. Consistent with the Psychology Department Graduate Student Handbook (p. 15), transfer credit for courses taken elsewhere but accepted by the Program Director as counting toward the doctoral degree must be submitted for university approval by the end of the first year of doctoral study. (Go to Transfer Credit Request, Doctoral Program ecialist degree tend to finish the program in 4 years (3 years of full - time residency on campus and 1 year on internship). At the initial advising session, a degree plan worksheet (Appendix B) is completed with the student, and copies are retained by the P rogram Director and the student. This plan should be completed before (or early in) the first semester degree plan worksheet. Following this session, each s tudent is assigned to a major professor who is a faculty member of the School Psychology Program, and Program Director and the major professor will maintain ongoing academic and personal advising of the student. Students may work with faculty outside the s chool psychology concentration but retain their primary academic advising from their major professor in school psychology. Students should meet with their major professor at least once al progress is reviewed annually during evaluation sessions. Assessments and Evaluations Student and program evaluations are ongoing throughout training. The following are the regular evaluations conducted for student selection, progress monitoring, and program completion. Practica, internship, and follow - up evaluations assure ongoing demonstrations of competence throughout the period of training and into the post - graduate years. Student evaluation methods include activities embedded in courses and practi ca, course grades, portfolio reviews, ratings by practicum and internship supervisors, and ratings by supervisees. In addition, self - evaluations of program training goals, objectives, and competencies and satisfaction with the program are obtained via self - ratings, interviews and surveys at scheduled times during program completion and afterward. Admission Requirements and Expectations. The first evaluation is the review of applicants for admission. The criteria for admission to the doctoral program appea r in The University of Memphis Graduate Catalog ( ) and include quantitative and qualitative measures. Applicants subm it a standard form reporting their demographic information, academic training, grade point average, and GRE scores; a personal statement; and three letters of recommendation. These materials are reviewed by program faculty with the expectations that applic ants (a) have training in psychology and strong interests in the research and practice of school psychology and (b) exceed the minimal expectations for grade point average and GRE set forth by the Graduate School. (See Student Admissions, Outcomes, and Oth er Data at The strongest applicants complete a face - to - face interview with faculty and are guided during their visit to campus by current students. Those applicants unavailable for such an interview co mplete an interview by phone or video conference. Students whose goals for training match well with the program and whose research interests match well with current faculty research are selected. Students from diverse backgrounds and students with disabili ties are encouraged to submit applications for admission. The University of Memphis will promote and ensure equal opportunity for Doctoral Handbook 23 all persons without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, disability status, age, or stat us as a qualified veteran with a disability or veteran of the Vietnam era. The Office of Diversity, Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action website is . There is a comprehensive prog ram of services and academic accommodations designed to provide access and opportunity is available to qualified students with disabilities through Disability Resources for Students. Its website is http:/ / . Course Assessments. Every course for credit in the program as well as all practica have embedded assessments, outcome assessments, or both. These assessments include routine course examinations, case study analyses, res earch reports, evaluations of readings, in - class presentations, and practicum and internship evaluations. In combination, these assessments provide an ongoing evaluation of students throughout the program. Annual Review and Portfolio Assessment. Students at least once per year (i.e., typically late May or early June in addition to progress reviews during advising each semester). The annual review follows the policy for student evaluation, reviewing both academic an d p rofessional progress in the program, and provides information on the quality of the program. The periodic evaluation of students is important to judging their progress and that of the program. Periodic evaluation sessions identify student strengths an d weaknesses as they relate to short - and long - range goals for continued professional development and to acquire specific career information. In addition , periodic evaluations provide the opportunity to establish short - and long - range goals for program development and delivery. Thus, periodic evaluation is a two - way process that provides information related to both student and program development. The fo llowing shall guide the periodic evaluation process: 1. Periodic evaluation sessions are held with each student individually at least once per year during his/her enrollment in the program. 2. Sessions are scheduled by program faculty and include all fa culty. 3. Students are formally evaluated following the spring semester, usually at meetings scheduled in May or June. 4. The session should review, but not be limited to the following: cific skills (e.g., report writing, case management), and conceptual development; b. the advisor's judgment of the student's personal - social behavior as related to the practice of school psychology; c. the student's perception of his/her academic and per sonal progress and overall suitability to the field of school psychology; d. the student's perception of the overall quality of program instruction, supervision, and administration; e. an overall summary of the student's progress toward degree completion , a recommendation for internship, and eventual endorsement for licensure. The general format of the review is guided by the Student Evaluation and Performance Portfolio Summary (SEPPS), which reviews progress toward programs goals, objectives, and compet hard - copy or electronic portfolio at the time of the session and is subsequently rated by the faculty. Doctoral Handbook 24 5. Following the evaluation session, student progress is rated by the faculty and a summary sheet p repared and provided to the student. A copy of the summary is maintained by the Program Director. 6. Additional sessions are generally conducted in conjunction with the student's regular academic advising for registration each semester. It is the respon sibility of the student to schedule an advising session each semester with the primary advisor. 7. Interns are evaluated through separate procedures at mid - year and at the end of the internship. Each student maintains a hard - copy or electronic portfolio t hroughout the program. The portfolio is organized according to the program training goals, objectives, and competencies and is reviewed as part of the annual evaluation. In addition to demonstrating student progress, the portfolio is an important part of As part of the annual evaluation, the portfolio, including the SEPPS form, must be made available at least one week in is also provided to all program faculty. In completing the SEPPS form, students are encouraged to provide responses that are keyed to specific documents in the portfolio that provide evidence for the program competencies. Based on the SEPPS form and the p ortfolio, one or more program faculty will provide a progress based on the portfolio and any other assessments that relate to the goals, objectives, and competencies of the program. First - year students are encouraged to seek the assistance of their student mentor in organizing their portfolios. Practicum/ Internship Supervisor Evaluations. Supervisors complete evaluative ratings of students during pr actica and internship. Evaluations are completed at the end of each semester of practicum and at the mid - point and the end of internship. St udents are rated by the supervisor on several areas including Personal Characteristics, Work Habits, Administrative and Legal Ethical Practices, and Response to Supervision, Assessment, Intervention, Consultation, & Research and Evaluation. Doctoral - Student Supervisor Evaluations. Student competencies in supervision are measured via ratings by supervisees. Lower - leve l graduate students being supervised by third - and fourth - year students participating in supervision training complete ratings of their supervisors. Specifically, they are rated on a 3 - point scale across 10 items. Comprehensive Examinations. Consistent wi th the Department of Psychology Graduate Program Handbook ( ), students are required to pass a comprehensive examination. The comprehensive examination serves as the specialty examination or qualifying examin ation ; the terms are sometimes used interchangeably in the Graduate Program Handbook. There shall be no required major area paper, nor may a major area paper or other second milestone project substitute for the comprehensive examination. The comprehensive examination is to be completed by the end of the summer of the third year of study. The successful completion of the comprehensive examination precedes work toward completion of the dissertation. Doctoral Handbook 25 Structure of the Examination. Following the scientist pra ctitioner model, the school psychology program employs the comprehensive examination to evaluate competencies associated with three program goals and specific objectives and competencies associated with them. (Program Goal #1 is not assessed during the com prehensive examination). Program Goal #2: To produce graduates who demonstrate an understanding of professional issues and meet standards of professional conduct for the practice of school psychology Objective for Program Goal #2: Students will understa nd historical and current professional issues and practices guiding the field of school psychology. Competency Expected for this Objective: Students will use knowledge of major issues in the history of the field and legal and ethical guidelines in their service to children, families, and others. Program Goal #3: To produce graduates who demonstrate relevant competencies for the professional practice of school psychology Objectives for Program Goal #3: Students will understand the theoretical foundatio ns of and empirical support for assessment techniques targeting individual differences in cognitive, academic, behavioral, affective, and social functioning. Students will understand the theoretical foundations of and empirical support for various consulta tion models and direct interventions for academic, behavioral, affective, and social problems. Students will understand historical and current professional issues and practices guiding the field of school psychology. Competencies Expected for these Object ives: Students will demonstrate competency in completing high - quality assessments that facilitate diagnosis or special education eligibility as well as intervention development. Students will demonstrate competency in completing consultation activities wi th teachers, parents, students, and other professionals in the areas of problem identification, problem analysis, treatment development and implementation, and outcomes evaluation. Students will demonstrate competency in identifying, implementing, and eval uating a range of appropriate empirically validated intervention strategies for behavioral, affective, social, and academic problems. Students will demonstrate an understanding of how cultural differences may affect assessment, consultation, and interventi on practices and adjust the provision of services accordingly. Program Goal #4: To produce graduates who are consumers and producers of research and who understand psychology as a science Objectives for Program Goal #4 : Students will understand how to use research to inform the practice of psychology. Competency Expected for these Objectives: Students will use research findings to guide selection of the most empirically supported assessment instruments, consultation models, and intervention techniques . Doctoral Handbook 26 Consistent with this intent, the written portion of the examination includes at least four items and lasts a maximum of 6 hours. The examination includes 2 hours (and at least one examination item) devoted to legal and ethical guidelines in service to children, families, and others. At least 1 hour (and at least one examination item) should be devoted to each of these competency areas: assessment, consultation, and intervention more th an one item may be devoted to assessment, consultation, and intervention practices. In addition, another item may cut across these competency areas. At least one of the items devoted to ethics and law, assessment, consultation, and intervention should expl icitly address how cultural differences may affect assessment, consultation, and intervention practices. Following these following structure as their ba se, but an additional item can be added (for a total of six items) or one of the 1 - hour items can be extended to 2 hours. Knowledge of ethics and law is typically assessed by two items. Ethics and law (2 items, 2 hours) Assessment (1 item, 1 hour) C onsultation (1 item, 1 hour) Intervention (1 items, 1 hour) Approximately 2 weeks following the completion of the written portion of the examination, the student will complete an oral portion of the examination with committee members. Committee Composi tion and Examination Processes. The comprehensive examination Program Director, and one other faculty member outside of the school psychology area. The ch airperson must be a full member of the Graduate Faculty. Other committee members may be full, associate, or adjunct members of the Graduate Faculty. The committee as a whole (including the student) shall convene an organizational meeting to discuss the ex amination, resources available to the student (see Appendix F), and the responsibilities of each committee member. The committee shall establish dates for submitting questions to the committee chair, for administering the examination, and for completing th e examination. The examination is not to be administered sooner than 6 weeks following the organizational meeting. The dates of the written and oral portions of the examination will be announced publicly at least 1 week in advance. Responses to the written portion of the examination are to be typed by the student and completed in the Psychology Building over no more than a 2 - day period. No instructional materials are to be available to the student during the examination. The committee chair distributes the entire completed examination for evaluation by committee members. The oral portion of the examination shall be conducted at a designated time following the written examination (ordinarily, within 2 weeks following the examination). The oral portion of the examination reviews areas of the written examination. Typically, the student will be first asked to questions about that item. No formal presentation (e.g., supported by slides) or written documents are required of the student. Evaluation of Competencies. At the culmination of the oral portion of the examination, each committee member will independently complete a rating form to evaluate the whole of the stud responses (see Appendix F). The items on the rating form address the six program competencies outlined previously, and each item is rated on a 3 - point scale: unsatisfactory , satisfactory , and excellent . Items rated by at least half of the committee m embers as unsatisfactory (e.g., 2 of 4 or 2 of 3 Doctoral Handbook 27 members) will necessitate that the student complete a reexamination focusing on the competency domains that were deemed not to be addressed in a satisfactory manner. When a reexamination is required, the stu dent to be given a remedial program to assist in preparing for reexamination. This remedial program will be specified in writing and signed by the occur fe wer than 6 weeks following the original oral portion of the examination. Only one reexamination is permitted. Failure to perform satisfactorily across competency areas on the second examination will result in a recommendation to the department chairperson that the student be terminated from the program. The committee chairperson is responsible for providing a copy of the written examination and the student's responses to the Program Director or the department chairperson who will place them in the student's permanent file. Practicum/Internship Site Evaluations. Students evaluate the quality of training received at the end of the practicum or internship experience. Specifically, the quality of the supervision and appropriateness of the site as a practicum/in ternship placement are rated. Exit Survey. At the end of the internship year, students evaluate the overall training and preparation they received in the program. Satisfaction and perceived achievement of program goals, objectives, and competencies are a ssessed. Alumni Survey . Within 5 years of completion of the program, graduates complete an evaluation of the program. This survey focuses on training needs, employment, and licensure for independent practice as a psychologist and health services provider . Doctoral Handbook 28 Doctoral Forum Advanced doctoral students who (a) have completed the first 2 years of training in the program or (b) have a master's degree or higher in school psychology or a related field will participate. The purpose of the doctoral forum in schoo l psychology is twofold. P rofessional issues and standards of conduct for the practice of school psychology are addressed. Example topics include the scientist practitioner training model (including the nature of scientific thinking and its role in school psychology), available career paths and long - term goals, current and emerging professional standards for conduct and training, applying for and selection of an APA - accredited internship, requirements for obtaining subsequent licensure as a licensed psychol ogist and health services provider, and current and emerging ethical and legal standards and issues. Additionally, as previously noted, the forum provides cas experiences. These meetings between the university faculty and the students also facilitate open communication regarding any issues related to the practicum experie nce. In consultation with participating students, the Program Director will organize the schedule and agenda for the forum. Research Expectations and Research Area Attendance Students are expected to be involved in research with program faculty or other faculty. They are required to attend the Child and Family Studies Research Group, which meets weekly during the fall and spring semesters. Students often enroll in Child and Family Studies for academic credit (PSYC 7619) in order to meet the 12 - semester - ho ur rule for holding an assistantship. The students are expected to make presentations to the group regarding their master's thesis and doctoral dissertation as well as other projects with which they may be involved. Furthermore, students are expected to at tend and offer presentations at departmental colloquia and attend other departmental and program functions (e.g., faculty candidate interviews and social gatherings). Finally, students are expected to offer presentations at state and national school psycho logy and related conferences. Student Resources Students are provided graduate assistantships of 20 hours per week throughout the duration of their on - campus residency (typically 4 years) as long as they remain in good standing. Students serve as research assistants, teaching assistants, or clinical placement students. Exceptions are made to this provision of an assistantship when students have previously secured an assistantship elsewhere on campus or through funding by relevant agencies. These assistants hips are 1 year in duration. Students on assistantships that require 20 hours per week of service are not expected to be employed in other degree and a stipend of $14,000 per year afterward, and tuition is waived during the fall and spring semesters. During the first year of their assistantship (when offered by the Psychology Department), students must register for PSYC 7621: Research Practicum during the first semester they are enrolled and attend a weekly colloquium supporting it on Friday afternoons throughout the entire academic year. Students have access to a variety of options for financial support and awards provided throughout the university. Info rmation on these support mechanisms is disseminated by broadcast emails, posted notices, and on the website: dents/fellowships/awards_fellowships.php Options for financial assistance (e.g., student loans) may be explored through the University of Memphis Office of Student Financial Aid ( aid/ ). This well - designed website gives information on student loans, scholarships, and student employment. Other helpful information for students is provided on The Univer sity of Memphis has numerous scholarship programs, the most prestigious of which is the Van Vleet Memorial Fellowship. Van Vleet scholars receive full tuition wavier and $16,000 in Doctoral Handbook 29 each of the four years of study. Two awards are given per year to graduat e students entering the University. See The First Generation Ph.D. Fellowship provide s financial assistance to graduate students from Tennessee who will be the first person in their immediate family to earn a doctorate and who are underrepresented in their disciplines. The award offers a $6,000 stipend plus a tuition waiver. See The university has reported to have set aside up to $200,000 for doctoral graduate stipend enhancements for students entering doctoral programs. The additional stipend would range between irst month on campus. This goal of this stipend enhancement program is to provide incentives to attract especially promising doctoral students. The Bartley Award is offered by the Psychology Department to incoming doctoral students across the Ph.D. progr ams ($15,000/year for 20 hours of work per week for 4 years). The Predoctoral Diversity Awards may be offered by at least two departments each year. The amount of the awards varies by discipline and is renewable for up to 5 years. All include a tuition s cholarship. Each year departments compete based on their record of recruiting and graduating minority students. See _students/fellowships/awards_incoming.php The University of Memphis Society Doctoral Fellowship is awarded each year to a full - time doctoral student based on academic achievement. The award includes a $2,500 prize. The Morton Thesis/Di ssertation Awards honor outstanding master's degree and doctoral students whose thesis or dissertation prospectus has been approved by their committee. The awards amount to $500 for a thesis and $750 for dissertations. See outstanding performance in and ser vice to the school psychology program. The award carries a $1,000 prize. Psychology Department chair has made available $20,000 each year to support travel for psychology graduate students through the Graduate Student Coordinating Committee. For more information go to Students are a ssigned an office in the Psychology Building. They may use personal computers in their offices, supported by Wi - Fi, and they have access to desktop computers and printers through research labs and computer labs in the Psychology Building (Room 102 for PC l ab and Room 103 for Mac Lab) and elsewhere on campus. Requests for support can be entered at . Graduate students in all programs are represented in departmental governance by the Graduate Student Coordinating Committee (GSCC; see ) composed of representatives from each of the programs. The 10 student r epresentatives (one from School Psychology program) have three votes in most departmental matters and participate in several activities; the GSCC representatives do not vote on matters reserved for the Tenure and Promotion Committee and matters related to other students. Students are encouraged to actively participate in the GSCC. School psychology students also belong to the School Psychology Association (SPA) and are expected to participate in this group. In addition to regular meetings and inservice pr ograms, the SPA members serve as mentors to new students. Elections for GSCC and SPA positions are held once per year. T ravel funding is available through the GSCC ( .memphis.edu/psychology/graduate/GSCC/travel_funds.php ) and the College of Arts and Sciences Travel Enrichment Fund ( ). Doctoral Handbook 30 Academic and career advice for students is av ailable within the department through mentoring relationships, the Program Director, or any faculty member. During their internships, students are assisted in their search for employment. Students are introduced to a variety of on - line employment resource s in the technology portion of PSYC 7800 Introduction to School Psychology . For example, ) website, the Center ( ), the Online Psychology Career Center ( ) , and the Chronicle of Higher Education ( ). Employment notices also appear in the APA Monitor on Psychology and the NASP Communiqu. State association and state dep artment of education websites are also helpful (e.g., ). Faculty are readily available to assist graduates during employment on matters of practice or pursuing additiona l employment positions. The Counseling Center ( ) provides free counseling, wellness, and psychiatric services for University of Memphis students. Its goal is to help students thrive in academic pursuits by helping them manage emotional, psychological, and interpersonal problems. Student Rights and Administrative Procedures Procedures for taking a leave of absence and pursuing a grievance are covered in the Department of Psychology Graduate Student Handbook ( ) . All School Psychology students, consistent with department and university policy, are expected to maintain continuous enrollment during the fall and spring semesters. A student who plans not to enroll for a semester or more must request a leave of absence in writing. The Leave of Absence Request Form (Appendix B in the Department of Psychology Graduate Student Handbook) must indicate the general reason for the request and specif y the anticipated date of return. Submission of this form will be taken as confirmation that the student understands that department funding upon return to the program will be based on the conditions approved by the program at the time the leave is granted contingent on budget availability. This request must be approved by the director of training, the graduate coordinator, and the department chair. The student should be aware that the university may require submission of an application for readmission to t he University. Any extensions beyond the period initially requested must be justified and reapproved by all parties. Students who fail to return to the program at the end of their approved leave without notification to the program may be considered for ter mination from the graduate program. If a student desires to dispute a grade, the student should talk with the instructor first in an effort to work out the dispute. If no resolution can be made with the instructor, a grade appeal may be submitted to the G raduate School following the grade appeal process outlined on the Graduate If a student is concerned about unprofessional or unethical activities (e.g., sexual haras sment; ) within the department or in a practicum or internship setting, the student should contact program faculty as soon as possible. Mor e generally, the following steps should be followed: 1. Go to the person with whom you have a complaint and try to come to a resolution. 2. Go to the School Psychology Program Director (Dr. Randy Floyd, if not already contacted) to address the issue. 3. Go to the Graduate Coordinator (Dr. Robert Cohen). 4. Form a Grievance Committee (see policy in Appendix A of the Department of Psychology Graduate Student Handbook for details). 5. Place a written complaint in the mailbox of the Department Chair (Dr. Fr ank Andrasik). 6. Go directly to the Department Chair to address the issue. The Office of Student Affairs (located in the Administration Building, room 235) is also available to support students experiencing such concerns. Additional documents discussing student rights are Doctoral Handbook 31 linked below: Office of Judicial and Ethical Programs, Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities University of Mem phis Graduate Catalog Department of Psychology Graduate Student Handbook Grades and Retention Information about expectatio ns for academic performance, probation, and grade appeals is covered in the Department of Psychology Graduate Student Handbook: ( University Graduate School policy requires that a GPA of 3.0 be maintained in all graduate work or the student will be placed on academic probation. Grades of D and F will not apply toward any graduate degree but will be computed in the GPA. Continuation of any type of university or external agency financial support will be conti ngent upon academic performance above the minimally acceptable 3.0 GPA level. Grades of D or F must be repeated if they are to count for graduation. No more than seven hours of C - , C, or C+ grades will be applied toward degree requirements. Grades of C - , C, or C+ may need to be repeated to keep the GPA over 3.0. No course may be taken more than twice. Students may repeat a course to earn a higher grade only if the earned grade was lower than a B. Only the grade earned in the second attempt will be included in the computation of the cumulative GPA. A maximum of two courses may be repeated to improve a grade lower than a B. Program policy concerning the repeating of a course to improve a grade is the same as the University policy (see Graduate Catalog, ). In general, the expectation is that students will earn a grade of B or better. S tudents must receive a grade of Satisfactory (S) for PSYC 7614a Assessment Practicum in School Psycho logy, PSYC 7614b Consultation and Intervention Practicum in School Psychology, PSYC 8809 Advanced Practicum in School Psychology, and PSYC 8999 Predoctoral Internship. Consistent with goals from the Graduate School, students whose cumulative grade point a verage drops below 3.0 are placed on probation. Continuation in the program beyond two consecutive semesters on probation might be granted if recommended by the Program Director and Graduate Coordinator and approved by the Arts and Sciences' Director of Gr aduate Studies and the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Studies. In addition, students who receive a grade below a B or an unsatisfactory grade in a practicum course (as described in the previous paragraph) must complete that course again following a re medial plan developed by the student and faculty. The Program Director reviews student grades to ensure that these criteria are met every semester. In addition, the practicum instructors review all Practicum/Internship Student Evaluation Forms and communic ate with practicum supervisors to ensure that students are meeting the expectation for the practicum experience and completing requisite number of hours associated with the experience. If a student is not meeting the grade - point - average criterion, the indi vidual - course - grade criteria, or completing their practicum in a satisfactory manner, the faculty will confer and meet with typically means repeating a c ourse or practicum). The student is provided a document with written feedback from that meeting. At an agreed - upon date, attainment of these goals is evaluated by the faculty, and a second document with written feedback is provided. In general, if a studen t has not made satisfactory progress toward degree completion (considering grades, program - level requirements, and practicum experiences), the student is dismissed. More information is provided about program - level requirements for students in the section d evoted to Assessments and Evaluations (see p. 22). Doctoral Handbook 32 Legal and Ethical Behavior and Respect for Diversity Appropriate professional behavior is an important part of completing the school psychology program. Students are expected to demonstrate ethical behavi ors throughout their training. The .The Psychology Department and the School Psychology program take all matters involving academic dishonesty very seriously, and students are responsible for following proper guidelines. From a broader perspective, the Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct of the American Psychol ogical Association ( ) and NASP Principles for Professional Ethics ( ) should guide professional conduct. In order to receive the endorsement and recommendation for applications for internships, licensure, credentiali ng, or employment, it is not sufficient to have merely completed the academic requirements. All students are to have additionally demonstrated their knowledge of and conformity with ethics and practice guidelines throughout all aspects of the program. S t u de n t s a r e exp e c t ed t o d e m ons tr a t e r e spe c t f or d i v e r s it y . D i v e r s it y m eans t he f a i r r e p r e se n t a t i on of a l l g r ou p s of i nd i v i d u a l s, t h e i nc l us i on o f m i no r i t y pe r s p ec t i v es a n d v o i ces, a n d t h e ap p r e c i a t i on of d i f f e r ent cu l t u r al and soc i o eco n o m i c g r oup p r a c ti ces. T h e U n i v e r s it y of M e m ph i s, the Department of Psychology, and the school psychology program asp i r e t o f o s t e r and m a i n t a i n an a t m osphe r e t h a t i s f r ee fr om d i s c ri m i n a ti on, h a r ass m en t , exp l o i t a t i on, o r i n t i m i da t i o n. I n add iti o n, t h e A m e ri c a n Ps y cho l o g i c a l A s s o c i a t i o n ( A P A ) h a s exp l i c i t p o l i c i es r e g a r d i ng t he i s su e s of and w r i t i ng a b out r ace, g ende r , c l a ss, se x ual o r i en t a t i on, d i s a b i l i t y , e t hn i c i t y , and r e l i g i on. T h ese s t a nda r ds ca n be f o und i n t h e Pu b l i ca ti on M a n ual o f t he APA o r a t t he A P A s w eb s i t e f o r t he O f f i ce o f E t hn i c M i n o r i t y A ff a i r s ( ) . Overall, t he program is committed to providing training that will prepare all students to work with client populations that are diverse wi th respect to a variety of characteristics, and students should treat clients and research participants with respect and dignity regardless of their r ace, g ende r , c l a ss, se x ual o r i en t a t i on, d i s a b i l i t y , e t hn i c i t y , r e l i g i on (or absence of religion) . Students completing practica and internships are required to provide services to all clients deemed appropriate by their supervisors. The Schoo l Psychology program employs an integrated and distributed model to address ethics and professional standards. Across exp eriences spanning the entire program from the first courses to internship, students are exposed to (and actively participate in processing) more than 100 total hours of coverage of these topics. More specifically, they experience more than 65 contact hours in this area, which exceed the 45 contact hours in ethics and professional standards associated with a standard 3 - hour course. In the fall of 2014, additional assignments addressing professional ethics were added to PSYC 7800: Introduction to School Psych ology. In addition, the requirement that students maintain, on file, evidence of their completion of the following four online tutorials addressing ethical behavior and respect for diversity was implemented. Certification of completion is provided to the P rogram Director (most frequently through the First - Year Colloquium and, for advanced students, the Doctoral Forum) at 2 - year or shorter intervals. Instructions t o access these tutorials follow . A. CITI: Research Ethics. The following are basic instructio ns to access your Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) account. New Users 1. Go to . 2. 3. On the Learner R egistration Page, find "Select Your Institution or Organization" and enter Doctoral Handbook 33 4. 5. button. 6. 7. Report that you would 8. in research (pr - 9. Select the curriculum. A. B. (Do not select C. D. 10. 11. Select University of Memphis Cour Social & Behavioral Research - 12. Complete the Integrity Assurance Statement before beginning the course. 13. For the Basic Course, complete all 17 required modules and achieve an average score of 80% on all quizzes following these modules. Remember that quizzes can be taken more than once to achieve the desired scores. 14. Print the Completion Report (and perhaps print or save to a pdf for your records). 15. Email a pdf or scanned copy of the Completion Report, labeled LASTNAME .CITI.201 X , to Dr. Fl oyd. Returning Users 1. Log in at . 2. Complete the Refresher Course. Complete all refresher modules and achieve an average score of 80% on all quizzes following these modules. Remember that quizzes can be taken more than once to achieve the desired scores. 3. P rint the Completion Report (and perhaps print or save to a pdf). 4. Email a pdf or scanned copy of the Completion Report, labeled LASTNAME .CITI.201 X , to Dr. Floyd. B. Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) 1. Go to and log in. 2. On your homepage, look for a Graduate Assistant tab (if you have such an assistantship) or perhaps an Employee tab. Select it and look for the FERPA chan nel on the page that opens. The channel is a box on the right hand side of the page in many cases. If you do not have a Graduate Assistant tab or Employee tab that leads to the page with the FERPA channel on it, you will have to add the channel to one of y our existing tabs before you can begin: A. B. The portal's "Manage Content/Layout" page appears. C. Highlight the tab to which you would like to add the FERPA channel. D. Determine which colum n you want the channel in; click the [Add Channel] button in that column. E. When prompted, "1. Select category," highlight "Select all" and click [go]. F. When prompted, "2. Select a channel," highlight "FERPA" and click the [Add Channel] button (step 3). G. Cli ck the "back to Home tab" link under the portal logo. Doctoral Handbook 34 3. and complete it. You will receive an e - mail confirming the fact that you have completed the tutorial. Print or safe it to pdf. If you have completed the tutorial during the past 2 years, select - UUID to verify FERPA completion status and complet ed the FERPA 4. Email a pdf or scanned copy of the tutorial completion document, labeled LASTNAME .FERPA.201 X , to Dr. Floyd. C. Welcoming Diversity 1. Complete the Welcoming Diversity tutorial at 2. Print and sign the Certificate of Completion. 3. Email a scanned copy of the Certificate of Completion, labeled LASTNAME .Diversity. 201 X , to Dr. Floyd. D. Preventing Sexual Harassment 1. Complete the Preventing Sexual Harassment tutorial at 2. Obtain a score of 80% or higher (or complete the tutorial again) and print and sign the Certificate of Completion. 3. Email a scanned copy of the Certificate of Completion, labeled LASTNAME .Harassment.201 X , to Dr. Floyd. Nearing their final year of training on campus, students also are required to demonstrate competency in understanding of professional ethics and law on their comprehensive examination (as described on pp. 24 - 27). Course - based readings and assignments throughout their program, comprehensive tutorials, and direct testing v ia the comprehensive examination ensure that students have extensive and advanced understanding of legal and ethical standards of practice. Students are made aware that The University of Memphis offers a number of services and organizations to facilitate a better understanding and acceptance of individuals of all types. They include the following: The Office of Institutional Equity ( ) monitors the University's policy on equal opportunity and affirmative action in employment and education and provides resources such as the Welcoming Diversity tutorial ( ) Disabili ty Resources for Students ( ) helps ensure equal access to all university programs and activities for students with disabilities, helps all members of the university community understand and accommodate their needs, and promotes the independence of such students. The University of Memphis Office of Multicultural Affairs ( ) provides a s upportive environment that advises students of color with regard to their academic, social, cultural, and financial affairs. The office is home to several student organizations, including the Black Student Association, Black Scholars Unlimited, Empowered Men of Color, the Hispanic Student Association, and the University of Memphis chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. The Center for Research on Women ( ow/ ) c onducts, promotes, and disseminates scholarship on women and social inequality, with particular emphasis on the relationships among race, class, gender and sexuality in the experience of Southern women. It Doctoral Handbook 35 supports a variety of events in the univers ity and community to highlight the contributions and achievements of women including films, lectures, performances and awards. Students for Bisexual Gay and Lesbian Awareness ( ht ) is committed to diversity and civility and offers a welcoming environment for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgendered students. It supports a SafeZone Program ( ). International Students Office ( ) supports the international population at The University of Memphis by providing advice on immigrati on matters, employment, taxation, cultural adjustment, and other practical issues. The office conducts an international student orientation each semester, coordinates insurance information, and assists student groups. Doctoral Handbook 36 Appendix A Policies And Procedures For The Establishment, Operation, And Maintenance Of The School Psychology Program Committee The School Psychology Coordinating Committee (SPCC) was originally established in 1975 by the Vice president for Academic Affairs to develop policy and curricul um for a jointly sponsored school psychology graduate program. The committee had representation from both the Department of Psychology (College of Arts and Sciences) and the College of Education. The original committee was appointed jointly by the Chair of the Psychology Department and by the Dean of the College of Education. The Chair and the Dean were granted joint overall authority for the School Psychology Program. Originally charged with the task of developing a program approval proposal to be subm itted to the Tennessee State Department of Education, the committee's efforts resulted in the development of the present program. At a meeting of July 7, 2015, it was recommended that the SPCC be reconstituted and that the MA/EdS program be brought into t he governance of the Department of Psychology with the support of the College of Education via a revised committee structure. The original SPCC, composed of four persons from the Psychology Department, four persons from the COE, with one person from each administrative unit designated as co - director of the program, and student representation will cease to exist, effective at the beginning of the fall semester, 2015. The new governing committee will be titled The School Psychology Program Committee (SPPC) . The committee will govern the MA/EdS and the MS/PhD degree programs. The MA/EdS program will no longer be considered as jointly sponsored but rather will include curricula and policies s office level representative of the College of Education. As such, the SPPC will include Dr. Thomas Fagan (Director of the MA/EdS Program), Dr. Randy Floyd (Director of the PhD Program), Lilya Jiang (Assistant Professor of Psychology), and Dr. Beth Meisi nger (Associate Director of the PhD Program) from the Department of Psychology and Dr. Ernie Rakow, Interim Dean of the College of Education. In addition student members as needed will be asked to participate on the SPPC. ver the MA/EdS degree program, the SPPC has policy authority over the MA/EdS and the MS/PhD degree programs. The committee ensures that its policies are consistent with the policies of the Department of Psychology while maintaining the necessary adaptatio ns enacted in the past for the EdS degree governed by the College of Education (e.g., 30 semester hours beyond the MA degree including the internship and requirements of the overall sequence as approved by the SPPC). The following policies apply to the com mittee: A. Establishment of the SPPC 1. The SPPC shall consist of the following persons: a. The core faculty of the school psychology program from the Department of Psychology, to include faculty whose primary assignment is to the MA/EdS and the PhD pro grams; in effect, all members of the school psychology core faculty (currently four persons). COE and approved by the core school psychology faculty. This is level person with broad understanding of the COE. At the discretion of the Dean, this person may be drawn from the areas of special education, educational psychology, or counseling. c. Students (e.g., from the MA/EdS level and th e PhD levels of the program) may be asked to participate in the SPPC governance. The students will serve as ad hoc members, called upon as needed by the SPPC. d. Faculty member vacancies are replaced in a timely fashion through the same process as the ori ginal selection procedure (see A - 1 - a & b, and A - 2). Doctoral Handbook 37 e. On e or more practicing school psychologists may be asked to participate in the SPPC governance. These professionals will serve as ad hoc members, called upon as needed by the SPPC. 2. The SPPC requ ires a continuity of membership from year to year. Faculty selected to serve on the SPPC shall be expected to serve throughout their terms of appointment by the Department of Psychology or the College of Education. A core school psychology faculty member may choose not to serve for reasons acceptable to the SPPC and at the discretion of the SPPC a faculty member from another area of the Department of Psychology or the College of Education may be 3. The SPPC Chair shall rotate annually between the MA/EdS and PhD program directors, beginning with the MA/EdS director for the period September, 2015 - August, 2016. B. Operating Procedures 1. Meeting Times and Minutes a. The SPPC shall meet at least once during each aca demic semester, excluding summer sessions. The meetings may be conducted through email or other electronic means. b. Meeting times and dates are established by the SPPC Chair in consultation with the members of the SPPC. c. Meeting locations will usually be in the Department of Psychology but may be held in the COE at the discretion of the committee. d. The SPPC Chair shall announce the meeting, establish the agenda, and conduct the meeting. e. Minutes of meetings are recorded by the SPPC Chair (or by a designated committee member). Minutes are disseminated and maintained by the SPPC Chair. 2. Business Topics The following represent the type of business that may be brought before the committee, though the committee is not limited to these examples: 1. program admission policies or decisions 2. retention or dismissal of students 3. special appeals or petitions prepared by students 4. curriculum policy decisions such as course additions, deletions, and substitutions (not to include day - to - day matters such as waivers) 5. selection of subcommittee members (e.g., admissions) 6. policies of the SPPC 7. accreditation 8. responsibilities of program faculty C. Decision - Making Policies 1. The presence of any three members, including the Chair and two fa culty shall constitute a quorum. 2. The committee attempts to reach decisions by consensus, avoiding the necessity of formal votes. In situations where clear consensus cannot be reached, a vote may be requested by any committee member. A simple majorit y of the voting members of the committee present at the meeting shall determine the decision. 3. Each faculty member of the SPPC has equal voting power (1 vote). 4. Student ad hoc members shall neither be present nor vote on deliberations related to fell ow students currently enrolled in the program (e.g., examination results, appeals, and retention decisions). 5. Ultimate responsibility for the operation of the program rests with the Chair of the Department of Psychology and policy decisions regarding t he program are subject to such review. Doctoral Handbook 38 D. Subcommittees 1. A Subcommittee on Admissions shall be established each year as per the policy on admissions. 2. If needed, a Subcommittee on Examinations shall be established as per the policy on examinations. 3. Additional subcommittees shall be established as judged appropriate by the SPPC. E. Changes to these policies. This governance document is reviewed annually to ensure that new policies and amendments to the document have been included. These policies may be temporarily suspended by the proper motion, second, and affirmative vote of two - thirds of a quorum present at a SPPC meeting; or the policies may be permanently changed by the proper motion, second, and affirmative vote of two - thirds of the SPPC's e ligible voting members. Doctoral Handbook 39 Appendix B DEGREE PLAN WORKSHEET PH.D. CONCENTRATION IN SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGY Name: Major Professor: Due to Graduate School requirements, students should enroll in 7000 - level courses befo re - Departmental Core (15 hrs) : Grade Year PSYC 7000 History and Systems of Psychology (3) PSYC 7301 Research Design & Methodology (3)* PSYC 7302 Advanced Statistics in Psychology I (3)* 2nd Stat/quant course approved by department (3) 3rd Stat/quant course approved by department (3) Note. * To be completed in first 2 years. Comments: Breadth of Psychology (12 hrs) : Grade Year PSYC 7207 Developmental Psychology (3) PSYC 7217 Social Psychology (3) PSYC 7701 Behavioral Neuroscience (3) PSYC 7407 Cognition and Emotion (formerly listed as PSYC 7503) (3) Comments: School Psychology Concentration (40 hrs) School Psychology Foundations (28 hrs): Grade Year PSYC 7800 Introduction to Sc hool Psychology (3)* PSYC 7802 Children with Disabilities & Families (3)* PSYC 7803 Psychoeducational Assessment I (4)* PSYC 7804 Ps ychoeducational Assessment II (3)* PSYC 7805 Psychological Consultation (3)* PSYC 7806 Interventions in School Psychology (3)* PSYC 7 416 Child Psychopathology (3) PSYC 7434 Clinical Psychotherapies: Appreciating Our Differences (3) OR COUN 7750 Multicultural Counseling (3) PSYC 7304 Measurement Theory and Psychometrics (3), EDPR 7511 Measurement and Evaluation (3), OR EDPR 7512 Psychometric Theory and Educational Applications (3) Note. * To be completed in first 2 years. Comments: Doctoral Handbook 40 Educational Foundations (12 hrs): Grade Year EDPR 7151 Individual Differences in Learning (3) SPED 7000 Introduction to Exceptional Learners (3) LEAD 6000 Foundational Studies: Educati on, School, & American Society (3) RDNG 7541 Advanced Assessment of Reading Performance (3) Comments: Subspecialization (12 hrs): A minimum of 12 hours to be selected in consultation with the complete a subspecialization. Two courses (6 hrs.) required in the departmental core area, breadth of psychology area, and school psychology concentration areas may count toward the subspecialization. Subspecialization area: Grade Year Course Comments: Master's Thesis (3 hrs): Title: Chair: Date proposal accepted Da te defended Grade Year PSYC 7996 (3) Comments: Comprehensive Examination: Chair: Date proposal accepted Date written examinat ion defended Date oral examination defended Comments: Practicum (12 hrs): Year 1 Practicum Grade Year PSYC 7614a Assessment Practicum in School Psychology (3) Site : Supervisor: Comments: Year 2 Practicum Grade Year PSYC 7614b Consultation and Intervention Practicum in School Doctoral Handbook 41 Psychology (3)* Site: Supervisor: Comments: Year 3 Practicum Grade Year PSYC 8809a Advanced Practicum in School Psychology (3) Site: Supervisor: Com ments: Year 4 Practicum Grade Year PSYC 8809a Advanced Practicum in School Psychology (3) Site: Supervisor: Comments: Internship ( 6 hrs): Grade Year PSYC 8999 Internship (6) Site: Supervisor: Comments: Dissertation (6 - 9 hrs): Title: Chair: Date proposal accepted Date defended Grade Year PSYC 9000 (6 - 9) Comments: Additional Courses : Grade Year Courses Comments: All Degree Requirements Completed Date: Total hours: Doctoral Handbook 42 Appendix C Ph.D. SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGY PROGRAM UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS Typical Program of Study Students who enter the pr likely have an altered program of study, depending on the number of courses accepted from prior graduate coursework. First Year Fall PSYC 7800 Introduction to School Psychology (3) * PSYC 7803 Psychoeducational Assessment I (4) * PSYC 7302 Advanced Statistics in Psychology I (3) Spring PSYC 7804 Psychoeducational Assessment II (3) * PSYC 7301 Research Design and Methodology (3) PSYC 7802 Children with Disabilities and Families (3 ) * PSYC 7614a Assessment Practicum in School Psychology (3) * Second Year Fall PSYC 7805 Psychological Consultation (3) * PSYC 7806 Interventions in School Psychology (3) * PSYC 7416 Child Psychopathology (3) PSYC 7701 Behavioral Neuroscience (3), PSYC 7207 Developmental Psychology (3), or statistics/quantitative course approved by department (3) Spring PSYC 7614b Intervention Practicum in School Psychology (3 ) * PSYC 7304 Measurement Theory and Psychometrics (3) PSYC 7407 Cognition and Emotion (formerly lis ted as PSYC 7503) (3) or statistics/quantitative course approved by department (3) Third Year Fall PSYC 7434 Clinical Psychotherapies: Appreciating Our Differences (3) Either PSYC 7701 Behavioral Neuroscience (3) or PSYC 7207 Developmental Psychology (3) PSYC 7217 Social Psychology (3) PSYC 7996 Thesis (3) Spring EDPR 7151 Individual Differences in Learning (3) PSYC 8809a Advanced Practicum in School Psychology (3) Subspecialty course Doctoral Handbook 43 Fourth Year Fall LEAD 6000 Foundational Studies: Education, Schoo l, and American Society (3) SPED 7000 Introduction to Exceptional Learners (3) PSYC 8809b Advanced Practicum in School Psychology (3) Spring RDNG 7541 Advanced Assessment of Reading Performance (3) PSYC 7000 History and Systems of Psychology (3 ) PSYC 900 0 Dissertation (3) Fifth Year Fall PSYC 8999 Professional Internship in Psychology (3) * PSYC 9000 Dissertation (1) Spring PSYC 8999 Professional Internship in Psychology (3) * PSYC 9000 Dissertation (1) Summer PSYC 9000 Dissertation (1) Graduate in Augus t Note. * Must be taken in semesters indicated. Doctoral Handbook 44 Appendix D Common Practicum Placements Listed below are common placements for advanced practica. The University of Memphis Psychological Services Center Director : Jim Whelan, Ph.D. Contact information : jwhelan@memphis.edu , (901) 678 - 3736 Psychologist supervisors : Jim Whelan, Ph.D.; Xu (Lilya) Jiang, Ph.D.; Randy Floyd, Ph.D.; and Beth Meisinger, Ph.D. Description: A university - based, outpatient psychology clinic serving a child, adolescent, and adult population. Training experiences include providing comprehensive psychoeducational assessments; coordinating the assignment of assessment cases referred; attending weekly didactic group supervision meetings with othe r clinic staff and the clinic director; attending weekly individual supervision meetings with case supervisors; and supervising other students conducting psychoeducational assessments. Shelby County Schools Mental Health Center Supervising psychologist : Vance Stewart, Ph.D. Contact information : STEWARTGV@scsk12.org , ( 901) 473 - 2721 Description : Provides psychological services to children, adolescents, and their families in the Shelby County Schools. Training ex periences include conducting psychoeducational assessments, classroom behavioral observations, teacher consultation, and individual and group therapy; crisis response; providing and attending in - service trainings; participating in IEP and student support t eam meetings; and weekly individual supervision. Shelby County Schools Threat Assessment Team Supervising psychologist : David Wilkins, Ph.D. Contact information : WILKINSD@scsk12.org Psychologist supervisors : David Wilkins, Ph.D. Description : The Shelby County Schools Threat Assessment Team is a unique combination of psychologists and social workers trained to assess individuals, based on Structured Professional Judgment, who have made salient threats or engaged in violent behavior warranting evaluation of violence risk in a school setting. This evaluation is intended to ensure safety in the school environment for the child, other children, and for school staff. Training experiences include conducting academic and behavioral case history assessment; cond ucting structured student and parent interviews; administering behavior and psychopathological rating scales; writing violence - risk reports; and providing recommendations for school and home. Note : Students usually have 2 to 3 supervisors and work as a member of the interdisciplinary threat assessment team. Shelby County Schools Head Start Psychologist supervisors : Warren Harper, Ph.D. and Karen Streeter, Ph.D. Contact information: drwharper@aol.com , Kstreeter5@aol.com Description: This site serves preschool children, their teachers, and their families. Training experiences include facilitating intensive, one - on - one interventions to address emotional and beh avioral difficulties in the classroom setting; providing teacher and parent consultation; enhancing parent education; and conducting psychoeducational assessments. Doctoral Handbook 45 Director of Clinical Services and Training : Valeri e M. Crabtree, Ph.D. Contact information : valerie.crabtree@stjude.org , (901) 595 - 6393 Psychologist supervisors : Valerie Crabtree, Ph.D. & James Klosky, Ph.D. Description : Training experiences include conduc ting psychoeducational assessments and classroom observations; attending school reentry programs and IEP meetings; and attending rounds concerning the needs and assessments of children with chronic illnesses. The University of Tennessee Health Science Ce Disabilities Director : Laura Murphy, Ed.D. Contact information : lmurphy@uthsc.edu , (901) 448 - 6511 Psychologist supervisor : Laura Murphy, Ed.D. Description : A psychology clinic serving p rimarily children age 2 - 10 and focusing on children 3 - 7 years of age. Most children and families seek to rule out autism, ADHD, or intellectual disability. Training experiences include psychological assessment; applied behavioral analysis (ABA) ; interdisciplinary team staffing; applied research on assessment and evidence - based therapies; attending weekly didactic group supervision meetings with other clinic staff and the clinic director; and attending weekly individual supervision meetings with case supervisors. Note: Students usually have 2 - 3 supervisors. Exchange Club Family Center Clinical Director: Catherine Collins, Ph.D. Contact information: ccollins@exchangeclub.net, (901) 276 - 2200 Psychologist supervisors : Catherine Collins, Ph.D. Description : Provides services to children and families who have experienced abuse. Training experiences include parent education; conducting anger management therapy; facilitating individual and group th erapy; and participating in weekly staffings. Doctoral Handbook 46 Appendix E Sample Practicum Agreement Practicum Agreement School Psychology Program University of Memphis & Memphis City Schools Mental Health Center Threat Assessment Team It is agreed that the on - site su pervisor (named below) will oversee the activities of the school psychology practicum student (named below) for approximately one day per week or its equivalent. Days and times of the practicum will be mutually agreed upon by the on - site supervisor and st udent. The on - site supervisor must be a duly credentialed psychologist (i.e., licensed mental health services provider). The on - site supervisor agrees to provide one hour of supervision each week or more, depending on the amount and complexity of the work . The practicum student will participate in psychological evaluations conducted by the Threat Assessment Team. As part of the experience, the student may administer questionnaires, conduct interviews, write summary reports and recommendations, participat e in parent feedback sessions, and observe district adjudication procedures . The practicum experience will begin September 3, 201X and continue through May 22, 201X. All parties involved agree to abide by the Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code o f Conduct of the American Psychological Association. Should a problem arise during the practicum experience, the on - site supervisor or the practicum student should contact The University of Memphis faculty supervisor in order to discuss the problem. The o n - site supervisor agrees to complete the practicum evaluation form at the end of each semester. The practicum student agrees to complete a log of activities as well as an evaluation of the supervisor and the practicum site at the end of each semester. This portfolio record and will be used to improve future practicum assignments. _____________________________________ _________________________________ Practicum Site Days and Times _____________________________________ ______________ ____________ Practicum Student Email Date _____________________________________ ______________ ____________ On - site Supervisor Email Date __________________ ___________________ ______________ ____________ University of Memphis Faculty Supervisor Email Date Doctoral Handbook 47 Appendix F Resources to Consult in Preparation for the Comprehensive Examination This list of resources stands to serve as a compi lation of books and website links that highlight the primary content coverage of the comprehensive examination: assessment, consultation, intervention, professional ethics, and multicultural issues. Students are not expected to read, skim, or thumb through every resource, but faculty and students in the organizational meeting will likely reference select resources as important. Comprehensive Texts Bear, G. G., & Minke, K. M. (Eds.). (2006). intervention. Bethesda, MD: National Association of School Psychologists. Fagan, T. K., & Wise, P. S. (2007). School psychology: Past, present, and future (3 rd ed.). Bethesda, MD: National Association of School Psychologists. Gimple Peacock, G. G., Ervin, R. A., Daly, III, E. J., & Merrell, K. W. (Eds.). (2009). Practical handbook in school psychology: Effective practices for the 21st century . New York, NY: Guilford Press. Gutkin, T. B, & Reynolds, C. R. (Eds.). (2009). Handbook of school psychology (4th ed.). Hoboken, NJ: Wiley. Harrison, P. L., & Thomas, A. (Eds.). (2014). Best practices in school psychology (6th ed.). Bethesda, MD: National Association of School Psychologists. (See also Thomas and Grimes, 2008.) Mash, E. J., & Barkley, R. A. (Eds.). (2014). Child psyc hopathology (3rd ed.). New York, NY: Guilford Press. Merrell, K. W., Ervin, R. A., & Gimple Peacock, G. G. (Eds.). (2011). School psychology for the 21st Century: Foundations and practices (2 nd ed.). New York, NY: Guilford Press Ethics - conduct - professional - practices.aspx American Psycho logical Association Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct with 2010 Amendments (in Jacob, Decker, & Hartshorne, 2011, appendix B or at ) Ar mistead, L., Williams, B. B., & Jacob, S. (2011). Professional ethics for school psychologists: A problem - solving model casebook (2nd ed.). Bethesda, MD: National Association of School Psychologists. Barnett, J. E., & Johnson, W. B (2008). Ethics desk refe rence for psychologists. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. Bersoff , D. N. (2008). Ethical Conflicts in Psychology (4 th ed.). Washington, DC: America Jacob, S., Decker, D. A., & Hartshorne, T. (2011). Ethics and law for school psychologists (6 th ed.). Indianapolis, IN: Wiley. Nagy, T. F. (2011). Essential ethics for psychologists: A primer for understanding and mastering core issues. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. National Associat ion of School Psychologists Guidelines for the Principles for Professional Ethics (in Jacob, Decker, & Hartshorne, 2011, appendix A or at rg/standards/2010standards/1_%20Ethical%20Principles.pdf ) Doctoral Handbook 48 Multicultural Issues Frisby, C. L. (2010). Meeting the psychoeducational needs of minority students: Evidence - based guidelines for school psychologists and other school personnel. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley. Frisby, C. L., & Reynolds, C. R. (Eds.). (2005). Comprehensive handbook of multicultural school psychology . Hoboken, NJ: Wiley. Jones, J. M. (2009). The psychology of multiculturalism in the school: A primer for practice , training, and research . Bet hesda, MD: National Association of School Psychologists. Leong, F. T. L. (Ed.). (2014). APA handbook of multicultural psychology . Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. Lopez, E. C., Nahari, S. G., & Proctor, S. L. (2015). Handbook of multicul tural school psychology: An interdisciplinary perspective (2 nd ed.). New York, NY: Routledge. Assessment Brown - Chidsey, R. & Andren, K. J. (Eds.) (2013). Assessment for intervention: A problem - solving approach (2nd ed., pp. 229 - 249). New York, NY: Guilfor d Press. Kranzler, J. H., & Floyd, R. G. (2013). A practical guide to assessing intelligence in children and adolescents . Guilford Press. Saklofske, D. H., Reynolds, C. R. & Schwean, V. (Eds.). (2013). Oxford handbook of child and adolescent assessment . N ew York, NY: Oxford University Press. Sattler, J. M., & Hoge, R. D. (2006). Assessment of children: Behavioral, social, and clinical foundations (5 th ed.). San Diego: Author. Sattler, J. M. (2008). Assessment of children: Cognitive foundations (5th. ed.). San Diego: Author. Whitcomb, S. A., & Merrell, K. W. (2012). Behavioral, social, and emotional assessment of children and adolescents (4th ed.). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum. Consultation Brown, D., Pryzwansky, W. B., & Schulte, A. C. (2011 ). Psychological consul tation: Introduction to theory and practice (7 th ed). Boston, MA: Allyn & Bacon. Dougherty, A. M. (2013). Casebook of psychological consultation and collaboration in school and community settings . Belmont, CA: Brooks/Cole. Dougherty, A. M. (2013). Psychol ogical consultation and collaboration in school and community settings (6th ed.). Belmont, CA: Brooks/Cole. Rathvon, N. (2008). Effective school interventions (2 nd ed.). New York, NY: Guilford Press. Interventions Brock, S. E., & Jimerson, S. R. (2012). B est practice in school crisis prevention and intervention . Bethesda, MD: National Association of School Psychologists. Brock, S. E., Nickerson, A. B., Reeves, M. A., Jimerson, S. R., Lieberman, R. A., & Feinberg, T. A. (2009). School crisis prevention and intervention: The PREPARE model. Bethesda, MD: National Association of School Psychologists. Merrell, K. W. (2008). Helping students overcome depression and anxiety, second edition: A practical Guide. New York, NY: Guilford Press. Rathvon, N. (2008). Effec tive school interventions (2 nd ed.). New York, NY: Guilford Press. Shinn, M. R., & Walker, H. M. (2010). Interventions for achievement and behavioral problems in a three - tier model including RTI . Bethesda, MD: National Association of School Psychologists. Walker, H. L, & Gresham, F. M. (Eds.). (2013). Handbook of evidence - based practice for emotional and behavioral disorders . New York, NY: Guilford Press. Weisz, J. R., & Kadzin, A. E. (2010). Evidenced - based psychotherapies for children and adolescents, se cond edition. New York, NY: Guilford Press. Doctoral Handbook 49 Appendix G Comprehensive Examination Rating Form Name: Date: Rater: Rating scale: 1 = unsatisfactory , 2 = satisfactory , and 3 = excellent Numerical Rating Ethics and Law The student d emonstrated a deep understanding of the legal and ethical guidelines guiding the profession of school psychology. Assessment The student demonstrated a deep understanding of assessments that facilitate diagnosis or special education el igibility as well as intervention development. Consultation The student demonstrated a deep understanding of consultation activities with teachers, parents, students, and other professionals. Interventions The stud ent demonstrated a deep understanding of empirically validated intervention strategies for behavioral, affective, social, and academic problems. Cultural Differences The student demonstrated a deep understanding of how cultural differe nces may affect assessment, consultation, and intervention practices. Application of Research The student demonstrated a deep understanding of how to apply research findings to guide selection of the most empirically supported assessme nt instruments, consultation models, and intervention techniques. Comments: