#http://www.memphis.edu/hpc/current-faculty.php
Current Faculty - High Performance Computing - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. High Performance Computing About Current Faculty Computational Research Configuration News Home High Performance Computing Current Faculty Information for Current Faculty This page contains information to assist faculty with getting started with High Performance Computing (HPC). To begin, faculty members should send an email to hpcadmins@memphis.edu . Getting Started If you have not yet acquired an account with the HPC, please email the HPC Administrators with your full name. To receive an account, you must be an enrolled student, faculty, or conducting research affiliated with a department within the University of Memphis. If the latter case applies, then we must have verification from the department which will sponsor your time on our resources and we may discuss this on a case by case basis. Logging In Once you have acquired a [username] you may open up a s(ecure)sh(ell) to 1 of 2 login nodes (login0-1) by opening up a Terminal window (Unix/Linux/Mac) and submitting the following command: $ssh [username]@penguin.memphis.edu Windows users will most likely need to install an application such as PuTTY , a SSH client which offers a graphical user interface where you can input the necessary login information, such as your username, password, and the the host name for our login node penguin.memphis.edu (or just penguin). An SFTP(Secure File Transfer Protocol) client such as WinSCP or Tunnelier will also be necessary for uploading to, and/or downloading from, your share on the cluster. Please read the paragraph directly below for information on how to connect to the cluster from off campus, keep in mind that if you are able to secure an off campus connection you will need to appropriately configure whichever third party application(s) you decide to use. The node you log into is determined by a "round-robin" scheme which will distribute users evenly among our login nodes. Also, please note, access to the cluster is restricted to connections within the University of Memphis's LAN (assuming that you are trying to ssh within the LAN, you can drop the ".memphis.edu" tag and merely use $ssh [username]@penguin ). If you wish to access the HPC from outside the University's LAN you must secure an account on a host within the LAN that does allow for an off campus connection and log into their server before logging into the HPC cluster. It is the users responsibility to secure an account on a host server outside the HPC. One method for students and faculty is the University's Virtual Private Network (VPN), which only requires your UUID and password. Detailed information regarding installation and usage, as well as a comprehensive FAQs, can be found at the University's VPN site. Passwords If you are logging into the cluster for the first time, you will need to immediately change the temporary password initially given to you. This process should begin automatically when you login for the first time. If not, or if you would like to change your password at any other point in time, you can use the command: $yppasswd If you cannot remember your password, please email the HPC Administrators and it will be reset for you. Submitting Jobs ALL jobs must be submitted to the job scheduler as either Batch (through a submission script) or Interactively. Through the links below a number of batch templates are provided with explanations on how to modify them for use. A selection of optional commands are also available for customization Batch Scripts (Templates for batch jobs with explanations on how to modify) Interactive Submission (Without GUI and with GUI information) Scheduler Control Commands (A selection of optional commands available for customization) Useful Links Resources Penguin Computing's Onsite Training Intel Compiler Directives for C++ and Fortran Links Job Scheduler Control Commands and Environmental Variables CUDA Documentation HPC Upgrade Learn more about the Summer 2015 HPC upgrade! Request Consultation Request Consultation with HPC Team Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .