#http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/ug_app_info.php
Application Information - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Home Music Future Students Application Information Registration for Spring 2016 and Fall 2016 opens September 1. To become enrolled in School of Music degree programs all prospective students must apply and be accepted by both the School of Music (SOM) and by the University of Memphis (UofM). Acceptance by the SOM is contingent upon UofM acceptance. Seek enrollment in the UofM by contacting the Undergraduate Office of Admissions at 901.678.2111, admissions@memphis.edu . Applicants seeking SOM scholarships should be accepted by the UofM before their audition day. December 1 is the preferred day for acceptance to the UofM and the preferred day for application to the SOM for undergraduates. WHO SHOULD MAKE AN ONLINE APPLICATION TO THE SCHOOL OF MUSIC? Future undergraduate music majors Future undergraduate music minors Future non-music majors who want to audition for applied lessons and School of Music talent-based/performance scholarships Current University of Memphis undergraduates and new undergraduates who seek applied lessons (not School of Music scholarship) or theory courses or class piano courses, do not make an online application to the School. For information on these pursuits contact Music Admissions, Music Building, Room 121 B, musicadmissions@memphis.edu , 901.678.3766. For your online SOM application we recommend that you use Google Chrome, Safari, or Firefox browsers. Problems have been reported by students attempting to make applications using Internet Explorer. To apply to the School of Music, click here . You must log-in to *DecisionDesk with your name and create a password. You will be able to Save and Exit your application and go back until it is complete. Once your application is submitted, you will be able to revisit but not change the content of your application except for resending your recommendation requests. For technical assistance with your application, contact DecisionDesk . For non-technical assistance, contact music admissions . As part of your application you will be asked to submit basic contact information and questions about your musical experience and education. You will also be asked to provide names and email addresses of two recommenders who will be notified about your request for recommendation. The majority of concentrations require audition, so prepare to list the titles and composers of your audition pieces. The essays required of Music Industry students can be uploaded. Do not let the listing of titles and composers of audition pieces or uploading a Music Industry essay hold up submitting your application. You can email your audition pieces information or your Music Industry essay to musicadmissions@memphis.edu two weeks prior to your audition day. The School of Music application is easy to complete. You will want to put time and thought into the application process so that it reflects who you are, what you want to do with music, and how we will achieve that together at the University of Memphis Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. *The School of Music application is hosted online by DecisionDesk, a third party company. DecisionDesk charges $15 per application submission, payable with a credit or debit card. The online fee is not refundable. Applying online allows faculty to review your application in the most timely fashion, and is the easiest and fastest way to apply to the School of Music. If you cannot apply online please email musicadmissions@memphis.edu to request more information about other options. Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .