#http://www.memphis.edu/law/faculty-staff/k-schaffzin.php
Katherine Schaffzin - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Home School of Law Faculty Katherine Schaffzin Katharine Traylor Schaffzin Associate Professor of Law Phone (901) 678-1623 Email ktschffz@memphis.edu Fax Office Law School, Office 367 Office Hours CV About Professor Schaffzin Professor Schaffzin joined the faculty of the University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law in 2009, after serving for three years as Assistant Professor at the University of North Dakota School of Law. Prior to her services at UND, she was an Abraham L. Freedman Fellow &amp; Lecturer in Law at Temple University Beasley School of Law. She practiced law for three years in the area of construction litigation in New York and Philadelphia. As a transition from practice to law teaching, she clerked for the Honorable James Knoll Gardner in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. In addition to her scholarly interests, Schaffzin is deeply committed to teaching students trial advocacy skills. She is certified by the National Institute of Trial Advocacy as a Teacher of Trial Advocacy Skills. At the University of North Dakota School of Law, she coached the Trial Team to consecutive regional championships and to the National Trial Competition. While practicing and clerking, she coached the Trial Team at Franklin Learning Center in Philadelphia, PA, to several city championships and to the state competition. In addition to her other courses at Memphis, Schaffzin teaches Trial Advocacy. She has also been invited to address the Advisory Committee on Evidence Rules. Education LLM, Temple University Beasley School of Law, Philadelphia, PA; JD, Temple University Beasley School of Law, Philadelphia, PA; BA, LaSalle University, Philadelphia, PA Admitted New York (inactive); New Jersey; Pennsylvania (inactive); United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania Experience Associate Professor of Law, Director of Faculty Development, Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, University of Memphis (present); Assistant Professor of Law, University of North Dakota School of Law (2006-2009); Abraham L. Freedman Fellow &amp; Lecturer in Law, Temple University Beasley School of Law (2004-2006); Judicial Law Clerk, Honorable James Knoll Gardner, United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (2003-2004); Associate, Mazur, Carp &amp; Rubin, P.C., New York, NY (2002-2003); Associate, Pepper Hamilton, LLP, Philadelphia, PA (2000-2002). Teaching Interests Evidence, Civil Procedure, Professional Responsibility, and Trial Advocacy Publication and Research Schaffzin focuses her research on the intersection of evidence, civil procedure, and professional responsibility, with an emphasis on the issue of privilege. Her work has been published in the UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN JOURNAL OF LAW REFORM, the BOSTON UNIVERSITY PUBLIC INTEREST LAW JOURNAL, the NORTH DAKOTA LAW REVIEW, THE TENNESSEE LAW REVIEW, THE CHARLESTON LAW REVIEW and the TEMPLE LAW REVIEW. Her course package reflects her interest in the area of her scholarship. Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .