#http://www.memphis.edu/accountancy/faculty/cbailey2.php
CHARLES BAILEY - ACCT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - School of Accountancy Welcome Programs Admissions Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Publications FCBE Faculty Welcome Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Admissions Getting Started Financial Assistance Application Form Networking &amp; Career Development Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Courses Offered Undergraduate Graduate Course Syllabi Publications Contact Us Home ACCT Faculty CHARLES BAILEY CHARLES BAILEY Professor, School of Accountancy Phone 901.678.5614 Email cbailey2@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2685 Office FCBE 212 Office Hours by appointment Website Biography Charles D. Bailey is Professor of Accountancy at The University of Memphis. He was Professor of Accounting at the University of Central Florida 1991-2003, and previously Associate and Assistant Professor at Florida State University, 1981-1991. His publications have appeared in The Accounting Review , the Journal of Accounting Research, Accounting, Organizations and Society, Management Science, IIE Transactions , and other research and practitioner journals. Before entering academia, he worked as credit and accounting manager for a wholesale company and as a manager in bank operations. His degrees from Georgia State University include the Ph.D. in Business Administration (Accounting), 1981; M.P.A. (Accounting), 1980; M.B.A. (Management), 1973; and B.B.A (Management), 1969. Professional memberships include the American Accounting Association and the Decision Sciences Institute. A current vita is available at . Research Research Dr. Bailey’s most recent research has focused on professional ethics and professional judgment and decision making. Other research interests include industrial learning curves and other managerial- and cost-accounting techniques; and judgmental forecasting. Representative Publications: “The Moderating Effects of Task Complexity and Task Attractiveness on the Impact of Monetary Incentives in Repeated Tasks.” With Nicholas J. Fessler. Journal of Management Accounting Research 23 (2011): 189–210. “Auditors’ Levels of Dispositional Need for Closure and Effects on Hypothesis Generation and Confidence.” With Cynthia Daily and Thomas J. Phillips, Jr. Behavioral Research in Accounting 23:2 (2011): 27–50. “Does the Defining Issues Test Measure Ethical Judgment Ability or Political Position?” Sole authored. The Journal of Social Psychology 151:3 (2011): 314–330. “Revitalizing Accounting Ethics Research in the Neo-Kohlbergian Framework: Putting the DIT into Perspective.” With Steve Thoma and Irana Scott. Behavioral Research in Accounting 22:2 (2010): 1–26. “A Strategic Profitability Analysis of Southwest Airlines: Applying the Horngren, Datar and Foster Approach.” With A. Collins, D. Collins, and K. Lambert. Issues in Accounting Education 24:4 (2009): 539–551 . “Does ‘Political Bias’ in the DIT or DIT-2 Threaten Validity in Studies of CPAs?” With Thomas J. Phillips, Jr., and Stephen B. Scofield. Behavioral Research in Accounting 17 (2005): 23–42. An Empirical Reanalysis of the Selection-Socialization Hypothesis: A Research Note. @ With Stephen B. Scofield (deceased) and Thomas J. Phillips, Jr. Accounting, Organizations and Society 29 Issue 5 B 6 (2004): 543-563. Parameter Prediction Models For Industrial Learning Curves: An Empirical Evaluation. @ With E. V. McIntyre. IIE Transactions 35 (2003): 1077 B 1090. A Research Misconduct in Accounting Literature: A Survey of the Most Prolific Researchers = Actions and Beliefs. @ With James Hasselback and Julia Karcher. Abacus 37:1 (2001): 26 B 54. “Some Evidence on the Nature of Relearning Curves.” With E. V. McIntyre. The Accounting Review (April 1992): 368–378. “Forgetting and the Learning Curve: A Laboratory Study.” Management Science (March 1989): 340–352. Teaching Dr. Bailey teaches Cost and Managerial Accounting courses. He has recently taught ACCT3310 (Cost Accounting) and ACCT7320 (Controllership), ACCT7310 (Advanced Cost Accounting). He also teaches a dostoral seminar in Judgment and Decision Making, ACCT8720. Service American Accounting Association Service: ABO Section webmaster, 2005–2011 Immediate Past Chair the ABO Section, 2005–2006 Chair of the ABO Section, 2004–2005 (Chair Elect 2003–2004) Member of Professionalism and Ethics Committee, 2001–2002 Member of Minority Faculty Development Subcommittee, 2000–2001 Editor, 2000-2001, ABO Reporter Regular reviewer/discussant, research meetings and Symposia on Ethics University Committee Service: Chair of Promotion and Tenure Committee, School of Accountancy, 2011¬–2012; member 2012-2013. Chair of the Faculty Senate’s Faculty Grievance Committee, University of Memphis, 2008–present. Ph.D. Coordinator for School of Accountancy, 2003–2009. Regularly serve on School and College committees. Elected to College Promotion-and-Tenure Committee 2000–2001, 2002–2003. Chair of College Research Committee 1997; member 1998–99. Chair of College task force to review the code of ethics of the UCF College of Business faculty, 1998–1999. Editorial Service for Journals: Associate Editor, Issues in Accounting Education, 2010–2012. Serving on editorial boards of Accounting Horizons, Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research, and Global Perspectives on Accounting Education. Served on the editorial boards of Advances in Accounting, the Journal of Accounting Education, Accounting and the Public Interest, Managerial Finance, and The Accounting Educators’ Journal, and as a reviewer for The Accounting Review; the Journal of Accounting, Auditing and Finance; Management Science; Decision Sciences; Behavioral Research in Accounting; Journal of Research in Personality; Accounting in the Public Interest; IIE Transactions; the European Journal of Operational Research; Omega; the National Science Foundation; Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, and others. Other Professional Service: Arranged and coordinated the 2008 and 2012 Mid-South Doctoral Consortium between The University of Memphis, The University of Mississippi, and Mississippi State University. Local Arrangements Coordinator, 1996 annual Decision Sciences Institute Meeting. Faculty Welcome Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Admissions Getting Started Financial Assistance Application Form Networking &amp; Career Development Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Courses Offered Undergraduate Graduate Course Syllabi Publications Contact Us Networking &amp; Career Development Learn more about two important keys to career success! Financial Assistance Looking for financial assistance? Try looking here first! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .