#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/getinvolved/student/thefam.php
Future Alumni of Memphis - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Get Involved Future Alumni of Memphis Future Alumni of Memphis Welcome to the FAM! The Future Alumni of Memphis, also known as the FAM , is the student-based extension of the University of Memphis Alumni Association. The FAM provides services for current University of Memphis students that will aid in developing stronger connections with the institution as well as with its alumni. All current undergraduate and graduate students can be a member of the FAM ! YOU are what makes the University of Memphis a great place and why we are proud to be part of the Tiger family! So why shouldn’t you become part of the FAM and experience all of the great services and benefits offered to our alumni? Prospective students- be sure to sign up for New Student Orientation today! Click here for more information. FAM Membership Benefits DISCOUNTS at great places, such as merchandise and textbook discounts at Tiger Bookstore, merchandise discounts at the University Bookstore and Tiger Gift Shop, Lenny’s, Target.com, Perkins, and many, many more! Official FAM t-shirt! Increasing loyalty, pride, and tradition at the UofM NETWORKING! Develop an alumni professional network and become engaged in an active student network. Athletic Events: Access to Tailgates, Watch Parties, Pep Rallies Increase Tiger spirit in and around the community Past Events Midday Moves - FAMily Dodgeball Game FAM kicked off Parent &amp; Family Weekend with Midday Moves on Friday, September 19. All faculty, staff, students and Tiger Family were invited to participate. Help Us Break a World Guinness Record! The Alumni Association, Blue Crew, Student Ambassador Board, FAM and Healthy U participated in the "Dying To Be Healthy" Midday Moves event and broke the world record of the number of people to do sit-ups in one location! Participants did sit-ups for one minute (minimum of one sit-up) and enjoyed a “Thriller” dance performance. After the Guinness World Record was broken, Aramark provided a complimentary lunch to the first 500 participants. Homecoming 2011 Congrats to the FAM for winning 1st place in the non-float category at the 2011 Homecoming Parade! Thanks to everyone who participated! Peabody Rooftop Party FAM kicked off the school year by hosting an exclusive Peabody Rooftop Party in September 2011. Guests enjoyed a performance by Memphis' own FreeSol and music by DJ Drex from Q107.5. View Photos Costume Riverboat Party The FAM commandeered a riverboat and threw a “ghostly” party on the mighty Mississippi River in October 2010. View Photos Blue and Gray Ball The FAM hosted the Blue and Gray Ball February 2010 at Central Train Station in Downtown Memphis. This event was the official kick-off for the student organization. Students and guests in their finest Tiger Blue &amp; Gray cocktail attire enjoyed a night of great music by D-Lo, dancing, and food with special performances by Al Kapone, Ingram Hill and American Idol finalist Alexis Grace! View Photos How can I be part of The FAM? Annual membership for the FAM is only $20/year, which allows access to all Alumni Association events and the amazing local and national discounts! Plus …you get a cool t-shirt just by joining! Or, if you're a True Blue Tiger Fan, you can take advantage of the FAM/Blue Crew Combo Package for just $30 a year! This will give you all of the FAM benefits, PLUS a Blue Crew Game Day t-shirt, access to Blue Crew events, and priority seating at games. To join the FAM , fill out an application using a credit card by clicking here . Print out your online confirmation page and bring it by the Alumni Center (635 Normal Street) to pick up your temporary membership card and your t-shirt!!! OR …You may stop by the Alumni Center (635 Normal Street) and fill out an application in person, pay (with credit card, check or cash), and pick up your temporary membership card and t-shirt!!! Contact The FAM For more information, contact the FAM at fam@memphis.edu or 901.678.ALUM. University of Memphis Alumni Association Attn: The FAM 635 Normal Street Memphis, TN 38152 901.678.2586 phone 901.678.3035 fax Get Involved Academic Chapters Arts &amp; Sciences School of Law CEHHS Communication Sciences &amp; Disorders FCBE Engineering International MBA Journalism Kemmons Wilson School School of Nursing Masters of Public Administration Music Professional MBA University College Constituent Groups Band Frosh Camp Half Century Hispanic Alumni Lambuth Luther C. McClellan Memphis Pom UMAR Young Alumni Out of Town Atlanta Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Indianapolis Minneapolis Nashville New England New Orleans New York Orlando/Tampa San Francisco St. Louis Washington, DC Student Groups Future Alumni of Memphis Student Ambassador Board Scholarships Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .