#http://www.memphis.edu/bioinformatics/about/
UofM - Bioinformatics - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Bioinformatics About Programs Requirements People Research Areas Home Bioinformatics About About Bioinformatics Bioinformatics is a rapidly growing interdisciplinary field which combines mathematical and computer sciences with biology and/or medicine. With the recent advancements in biotechnology, biologists are frequently overloaded with large datasets which need to be stored and analyzed in automated ways. Bioinformatics provides the tools to understand complex biological systems ranging from entire ecological systems, to specific human diseases, to cellular and molecular networks. What are the requirements to enter the Program? Bioinformatics is a challenging field, requiring working knowledge of three different disciplines. To enter the Master's Program in Bioinformatics, a student must have: 1) A strong background in computer science; 2) background in Biology and Statistics; 3) competitive GRE and TOEFL scores. For more information on admission requirements for the graduate school at The University of Memphis, please go to the Graduate School website. What is the curriculum? The total credit hours required for graduation is 36. The core courses include: two classes in computer science (Bioinformatics, Algorithms), two classes in Statistics (Probability Theory, Applied Statistics), two classes in biology (Cell biology, Genomics), and the Bioinformatics Research Seminar course (taken each semester). The remaining credit hours may be selected from a large number of graduate classes in Mathematics, Computer Science, Biology, Biomedical Engineering, or Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Memphis. Students may receive up to six credit hours by electing to write and defend a Master's Thesis Project based upon their primary research outside of course work. Research projects may be conducted with investigators at the University of Memphis, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, or St. Jude Children's Hospital. Non-thesis candidates will be required to enroll in a Research class, submit and defend a research paper on the topic approved by their adviser. Research Assistantships and tuition waivers are available to Bioinformatics graduate students on a competitive basis and are renewable annually. What are the job opportunities in Bioinformatics? There is a growing need and job market for bioinformatics specialists in academic and research institutions as well as pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. The starting salaries for bioinformatics professionals can range widely, depending on the institution and specialization of the individual. Check St. Jude Children's Research Hospital "All Positions" for current Bioinformatics job opportunities in the area. Learn more. For more information, email bioinformatics@memphis.edu . Apply to our Masters Program &gt; Earn a degree in an exciting and diverse field. Employment &amp; Internship Opportunities &gt; Find employment &amp; internship opportunities in Bioinformatics. News &amp; Events &gt; Weekly colloquium talks and other events Contact &gt; Questions? Let's talk! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .