#http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/admiss-place.php
Admissions and Placements - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Home Music Future Students Admissions and Placements Admissions Information for Majors, Minors, and Lessons Only To become enrolled in School of Music degree programs, all prospective students must apply and be accepted by both the School of Music and by the University of Memphis. Acceptance by the School of Music (SOM) is contingent upon University of Memphis (UofM) acceptance. For UofM enrollment information contact the Undergraduate Office of Admissions at 901.678.2111. Students seeking SOM scholarships should be accepted by the UofM before their audition day. December 1 is the preferred day for acceptance to the UofM and application to the SOM. Every student wishing to enroll in the School of Music (SOM) must have an audition (Music Majors, Music Minors, Lessons Only, Scholarships) or orientation (Music Industry) and be accepted by faculty. Students who have had college level theory courses, AP or IB theory take an aural theory placement test in addition to the written theory test to determine placement. Students actively pursuing these courses during the semester they audition are encouraged to retake all placement tests in August. THEORY PLACEMENTS All music majors and minors take a written theory placement test during the first week of classes and are subsequently placed in an appropriate course. Students who have had college level theory courses, AP or IB theory take an aural theory placement test as well. To be placed in Theory I, students must be able to identify and write: All major and minor key signatures in treble and bass clef; All major scales and all three forms (natural, harmonic, melodic) of the minor scales; Major, Minor, Perfect, Diminished and Augmented intervals; Rhythmic notation including simple and compound meters, note and rest notation. To prepare for theory placement, review the sample theory placement test . This test includes answers and references to questions you may have. CLASS PIANO PLACEMENTS All undergraduate music degrees require class piano instruction. If your primary instrument is NOT piano but you have had formal piano lessons, you should do a piano placement on your audition day. Prepare a piece that best represents your level of playing and be prepared to sight read, transpose, and play scales. ADMISSIONS INFORMATION FOR MUSIC BUSINESS AND RECORDING TECHNOLOGY MAJORS Music Business and Recording Technology applicants must meet academic standards required by the Music Industry division before attending a Music Industry Orientation/Audition Day. Acceptance to the School of Music is based on academic standards, an essay, participation in orientation, and acceptance by MUID faculty. Academic Standards for Admission to the Music Industry Major: Students who have 0-30 hours of college credit (Incoming Freshmen and most Transfer students) must have a qualifying score of 74.4 or higher calculated on the ACT, or a qualifying score of 3410 or higher calculated on the SAT. A qualifying score is determined by multiplying a student's ACT or SAT score by his/her high school GPA. If you meet the qualifying score, you are ready to schedule your MUID Orientation/Audition Day. After completing a successful orientation/audition and being accepted into the program, you must maintain a 2.8 Quality Point Average (QPA) and earn a C or better in General Education English, Natural Science requirements, and MATH 1530 for Music Business or MATH 1830 for Recording Technology within two academic years after orientation/audition. Students who have 31 hours or more of college credit and students who have 0-30 hours of college credit but do not have a qualifying score of 74.4 or 3410 or higher must accomplish the following academic standards before registering to do the MUID orientation/audition in order to be accepted into the program. Students must have a cumulative 2.8 Quality Point Average (QPA) including satisfaction of the U of M General Education English and Natural Science requirements, and the Music Industry Calculus requirement. You must have earned a C or better in each of these courses. (See MUID degree outlines). As soon as students who have 31 hours or more of college credit are accepted by The University of Memphis, they should make an appointment with Ms. Laurie Snyder for transcript evaluation. Call 901.678.2350 or email lhsnyder@memphis.edu . Transcript evaluation must be satisfied so that you know where you stand within the program curriculum. Students who have not been accepted into the MUID program may take U of M classes to fulfill academic standards and prepare for MUID orientation/audition but are not entitled to take MUID Core Requirements. Students who have not been accepted into the MUID program are advised by Laurie Snyder. Students who have been accepted into MUID programs are advised by School of Music faculty. ADMISSIONS INFORMATION FOR NON-MUSIC MAJORS Non-music majors who wish to take Applied Lessons and do not seek SOM talent-based performance scholarship must be approved for private study by applied faculty. All undergraduate students who take applied private lessons are required to perform in an ensemble as selected or approved by faculty (intro level classes exempt). Students who are accepted for Applied Lessons Only are offered lessons as space in the studios allows. Contact the appropriate faculty member about applied lessons. CLASS PIANO AND THEORY FOR NON-MAJORS Non-majors who want to study piano or theory have several options. Non-majors may register for Class Piano MUAP 1100 or Basic Theory MUTC 1001 (permit required) with no audition. Theory and piano classes beyond this level require placement exams. Contact the Music Admissions Office for assistance. To continue the theory and/or piano sequence past the introductory levels, students must have passed the previous course with a "C-" or better. ENSEMBLES FOR NON-MAJORS Non-music majors who wish to participate in ensembles should contact the conductor of the ensemble and participate in ensemble placements the week before the semester begins. Check the School of Music homepage in early July for ensemble placement information for the fall semester. Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .