#http://www.memphis.edu/about/umhistory.php
UofM History - About UofM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. About UofM Home About UofM UofM History About UofM General Information Accreditation Information Facts at a Glance History Key Administrators Mission, Vision and Strategic Plan Office of the President Tiger Pride Traditions UofM Fact Book Video: History of the UofM Campus &amp; Visitor Information Holiday Inn at the University of Memphis Event Calendar Bookstore Campus Map Campus Safety Report (PDF) Career Services: on- and off-campus jobs and internships Directions to Campus Memphis Attractions Parking Services Police Services Recreation Center Testing Center: CLEP testing, GRE, LSAT, MCAT, the UofM Prometric Center, etc. Transcripts Visit Campus Helpful Information AskTOM University FAQs Career Opportunities Majors, Minors, Concentrations Tiger Pride Apply Now Plan a Visit UofM History The University of Memphis was founded under the auspices of the General Education Bill, enacted by the Tennessee Legislature in 1909. Known originally as West Tennessee State Normal School, the institution opened its doors Sept. 10, 1912, with Dr. Seymour A. Mynders as president. Students in the first classes selected blue and gray as the school colors and the tiger as the mascot. Tradition holds that the colors, those of the opposing armies during the Civil War, were chosen in commemoration of the reuniting of the country after that divisive conflict. Over the next decade, The Desoto yearbook was created, the first library was opened in the Administration Building, the first dining hall was built and the first men's dorm was built; today that dorm, Scates Hall, houses the College of Arts and Sciences' Dean's offices. In 1925 the name of the college changed to West Tennessee State Teachers College. Three years later, the Brister Library was built, named after two-term president John W. Brister. In 1931 the students created a campus newspaper, The Tiger Rag; and in 1935 the school's agriculture department was discontinued. The college changed names again in 1941, becoming Memphis State College, and in 1946, J. Millard "Jack" Smith became president - the first alumnus to hold the position. In 1950 graduate studies were initiated, and in 1954 the school switched from a quarter to a semester system. In 1957 the state legislature designated Memphis State full university status. In 1959 the university admitted its first black students, and the first doctoral programs began in 1966. The 1970s, under President Cecil C. Humphreys, saw new buildings constructed across the campus, including a University Center and a 12-story library. In 1983 MSU became the first public university in Tennessee to gain accreditation of its entire curriculum. The 1990s were characterized by another name change and another building boom. In 1994 MSU became the University of Memphis, and the Ned R. McWherter Library was completed. Moving into the 21st century, the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management and the FedEx Institute of Technology have made their mark on the University landscape. Today, the University of Memphis is one of Tennessee's three comprehensive doctoral- extensive institutions of higher learning. Situated in a beautiful park-like setting in the state's largest city, it is the flagship of the Tennessee Board of Regents system. It awards more than 3,000 degrees annually. With an enrollment of approximately 21,000 students, The University of Memphis has 24 Chairs of Excellence, more than any other Tennessee university, and five state-approved Centers of Excellence. The Heritage Room Those interested in the University's history can take a walk through the past by visiting the Heritage Room in Brister Hall on campus. Over 150 items are on display, including yearbooks, lettermen jackets and sweaters, class photos, diplomas, football cleats, and more. Photos documenting the integration of the University in the late 1950s are also on exhibit. The Heritage Room is open on Mondays and Thursdays from 1:30 to 4 p.m. during the Fall and Spring semesters when classes are in session and on Thursdays from 1:30 to 4 p.m. during the Summer session. About UofM General Information Accreditation Information Facts at a Glance History Key Administrators Mission, Vision and Strategic Plan Office of the President Tiger Pride Traditions UofM Fact Book Video: History of the UofM Campus &amp; Visitor Information Holiday Inn at the University of Memphis Event Calendar Bookstore Campus Map Campus Safety Report (PDF) Career Services: on- and off-campus jobs and internships Directions to Campus Memphis Attractions Parking Services Police Services Recreation Center Testing Center: CLEP testing, GRE, LSAT, MCAT, the UofM Prometric Center, etc. Transcripts Visit Campus Helpful Information AskTOM University FAQs Career Opportunities Majors, Minors, Concentrations Tiger Pride Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .