#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/
Graduate School - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Home Graduate School STEP UP: Start a Master's or PhD today Are you interested in joining a new profession or enhancing the knowledge and experience you already possess? Whatever your dreams, the University of Memphis can help you achieve them! At the U of M, you will find a comprehensive array of academic programs, outstanding faculty, and a supportive environment conducive to graduate study and research. As a major urban research university, the U of M enrolls roughly 4,000 graduate students in more than 110 degree programs, many of which are ranked among the best in the nation. Master's degree programs are offered in 54 areas through six colleges and three schools. The Doctor of Philosophy degree is offered in 19 areas through five colleges and three schools. The degrees of Doctor of Audiology, Doctor of Education, and Doctor of Musical Arts are awarded through two colleges and one school. An Education Specialist degree is also offered. in the news University of Memphis MHA NAHSE Case Competition Team UofM Ranked Among Top PhD Programs in Business Tennessee Board of Regents Approves New Graduate Tuition Proposal GoGrad Ranks Two U of M Online Master's Programs in Top 10 CEPH Accredits the University of Memphis School of Public Health Princeton Review Ranks U of M's Online MBA Program Among Nation's Top 25 University of Memphis Creates JD/MPH Degree Program University of Memphis Partnering with the Church Health Center to Bring Health Coverage to Graduate Assistants New Graduate Student Professional Development Certificate Program offered by the University of Memphis Graduate School U.S. News &amp; World Report Ranks U of M Graduate Programs Among Best in Nation Loewenberg School Ranked Among the Best Online Graduate Nursing Programs Stroke of Genius: University of Memphis graduate student, Eddie Han, helps swimmers from around the world improve their times Finding One's Voice: Architecture Gives Rape Survivors a Place of Their Own FCBE Alumni Named Best CFOs of the Year by Memphis Business Journal Social Work Grant Will Produce More Master's Level Social Workers The First PhD Fulbright Scholar from Afghanistan Chooses the University of Memphis Graduate School for His Studies Graduate Student Population at the University of Memphis Largest in the Region Employers' Needs Driving Graduate School Enrollees in Memphis Graduate Student Completes Internship in Safety Training for Immigrant Dairy Workers CONTACT US: 901.678.4212 | graduateschool@memphis.edu COME VISIT US: FedEx Institute of Technology Suite 201 Memphis, TN 38152 Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Follow Us Online Twitter Facebook driven by doing One of the major wins of the higher education doctoral program is the presence of supportive faculty members. They have been helpful and encouraging in ensuring my academic success as a student in the program. Omotola Jenkins Calendar Apply Now Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/12/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .