#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/research/athena.php
The Athena Project - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources Research Lab Listing Lab Media/Videos Lab Websites Athena Project Assessment of Children in Educational Settings Laboratory Center for Health Promotion and Evaluation Child Health and Illness Lab - Child and Family HABIT Lab Historical Psychoeducational Test Collection Institute for Gambling Education and Research Knowledge Axquisition Laboratory Language and Behavior Lab (LaBlab) Literacy Lab Optimal Learning Lab Peer Interaction Group Research Lab Psychology of Language Laboratory Psychotherapy Research Lab Resilience Emerging Amidst Childhood Harships (REACH) Lab - Clinical Child and Family Trauma &amp; Coping Research Group Trauma Research and Recovery Lab Home Department of Psychology Research The Athena Project Athena Project Listen to WUMR's interview with Dr. Gayle Beck about the Athena Project. Domestic violence, including physical, sexual or emotional abuse, affects millions of women each year. This abuse can result in not only physical injuries, but emotional problems as well. These problems can include but are not limited to: Frequent Memories of the Violence and Abuse Trouble Concentrating Being Jumpy or Irritable Depression Anxiety These reactions are normal but sometimes these feelings get in our way. We would like to help you move past these negative emotional responses to domestic violence and abuse. The Athena Clinic offers free evaluation and treatment services for women who are experiencing emotional difficulties following relationship violence. Benefits Evaluations are free and confidential. If you request, the results of your evaluation may be given to your doctor or lawyer. Evaluation The evaluation takes 2-3 appointments at the University of Memphis campus. You will be asked to talk about the abuse and your current feelings. Treatment You may qualify for treatment at our clinic. If treatment is not the best choice for you, we will provide you with referrals for other kinds of treatment or support. Support the Athena Project If you would like to support the Athena Project, please visit the Online Giving form. Or contact Dr. Gayle Beck for other options. Information Click below to expand topic. &gt;Directions From the East on I-40 Follow the Sam Cooper Blvd. signs (it will split off of I-40 to the left). Take the Highland St. exit and go left/south onto Highland. After four lights, turn left/east on Central. See Map for directions to Psychology Building and Parking Options From the West on I-40 Take the Riverside Dr. exit and go right/south onto Riverside Dr. Turn left/east on Union Ave. (Union will change names to Walnut Grove). Turn right/south on Highland. Turn left/east on Central. See Map for directions to Psychology Building and Parking Options From the North on I-55 Follow I-40 signsGo east on I-40Take the Riverside Dr. exit and go right/south onto Riverside Dr. Turn left/east on Union Ave. (Union will change names to Walnut Grove) Turn right/south on Highland. Turn left/east on Central. See Map for directions to Psychology Building and Parking Options From the South on I-55 Take the I-240 exit to Nashville (keep right). Take the Getwell North exit (exit 20B). Follow Getwell north until it ends at Park Ave. Turn right/east onto Park Ave.Drive one block and turn left/north onto Goodlett St. Cross the railroad tracks to Central Ave. Turn left/west on Central. See Map for directions to Psychology Building and Parking Options From the North on Hwy. 51 Just south of Millington, turn left/east onto Paul Barret Pkwy. (also TN 385)Turn right/west onto I-40Follow the Sam Cooper Blvd. signs (it will split off of I-40 to the left)Take the Highland St. exit and go left/south onto HighlandAfter four lights, turn left/east on Central. See Map for directions to Psychology Building and Parking Options From the South on Hwy. 78 Take the Perkins St. exit and go right/north onto Perkins. Turn left/west on Park Ave. Turn right/north on Goodlett. Turn left/west on Central. See Map for directions to Psychology Building and Parking Options &gt;Information for Healthcare Providers The Athena Project is a research clinic. Our focus is on working with women who have experienced domestic violence. We start off with an assessment that is focused on how the woman is coping emotionally. For many people, the assessment suggests that some form of treatment (counseling) might be helpful. We are in the midst of developing a specialized treatment for women who are having trauma-related problems stemming from their experience of domestic violence. We also have a large referral network and can suggest a care provider who has the skills to help if our program is not appropriate. Typically, we ask that the woman complete the assessment first, in order to personalize the treatment recommendation. All of our services are offered at no charge. As well, if the woman would like a copy of her assessment report sent to her doctor or lawyer, we are happy to do that with a signed release. . &gt;Related Publications Treatment Of PTSD In Older Adults: Do Cognitive-Behavioral Interventions Remain Viable? Personality Dysfunction In Adults Who Stutter: Another Look The effects of dissociation on information processing for analogue trauma and neutral stimuli: A laboratory study . Efficacy of Group Treatment for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Symptoms: A Meta-Analysis. Psychological Trauma: Theory, Research, and Practice A different kind of co-morbidity: Understanding posttraumatic stress disorder and chronic pain. The Driving Behavior Questionnaire: Scale construction and validation. Understanding the relationship of perceived social support to posttrauma cognitions and posttraumatic stress disorder. Factors contributing to anxious driving behavior: The role of stress history and accident severity. What Predicts the Trajectory of Rumination?: A Prospective Naturalistic Evaluation . Post-trauma symptoms following indirect exposure to the September 11th terrorist attacks: The predictive role of dispositional coping. Understanding the relationship between posttraumatic stress disorder and trauma cognitions: The impact of thought control strategies. What factors are associated with the maintenance of PTSD after a motor vehicle accident? The role of sex differences in a help-seeking population Group Cognitive Behavioral Treatment for PTSD: Treatment of Motor Vehicle Accident Survivors Understanding the pattern of PTSD symptomatology: a comparison of between versus within-group approaches Psychometric Properties of the Posttraumatic Cognitions Inventory (PTCI): A Replication With Motor Vehicle Accident Survivors Post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms, pain, and perceived life control: Associations with psychosocial and physical functioning Rebound Effects Following Deliberate Thought Suppression: Does PTSD Make a Difference? Screening for PTSD in Motor Vehicle Accident Survivors Using the PSS-SR and IES Specificity of Stroop Interference in Patients with Pain and PTSD The Role of Thought Suppression in Posttraumatic Stress Disorder A Preliminary Examination of Treatment for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder in Chronic Pain Patients: A Case Study Is the concept of ‘‘repression’’ useful for the understanding chronic PTSD? &gt;Domestic Violence-related Publications The Association Of Mental Health Conditions With Employment, Interpersonal, And Subjective Functioning After Intimate Partner Violence How Do Attachment Style and Social Support Contribute to Women's Psychopathology following Intimate Partner Violence? Factor Structure of the Dissociative Experiences Scale: An Examination Across Sexual Assault Status Exploring Negative Emotion in Women Experiencing Intimate Partner Violence: Shame, Guilt, and PTSD Understanding Post-trauma Cognitions and Beliefs Use of Mental Health Screening Instruments by Non-Medical Helping Professionals: A Needs Assessment How Do Negative Emotions Relate to Dysfunctional Posttrauma Cognitions? An Examination of Interpersonal Trauma Survivors Real-World Barriers to Assessing and Treating Mental Health Problems With IPV Survivors: A Qualitative Study Does Self-Blame Moderate Psychological Adjustment Following Intimate Partner Violence? Physical Injury, PTSD Symptoms, and Medication Use: Examination in Two Trauma Types Expressive inhibition following interpersonal trauma: An analysis of reported function &gt;Additional Memphis Resources For more information, please call: Dr. Gayle Beck (901) 678-3973 Research Lab Listing Lab Media/Videos Lab Websites Athena Project Assessment of Children in Educational Settings Laboratory Center for Health Promotion and Evaluation Child Health and Illness Lab - Child and Family HABIT Lab Historical Psychoeducational Test Collection Institute for Gambling Education and Research Knowledge Axquisition Laboratory Language and Behavior Lab (LaBlab) Literacy Lab Optimal Learning Lab Peer Interaction Group Research Lab Psychology of Language Laboratory Psychotherapy Research Lab Resilience Emerging Amidst Childhood Harships (REACH) Lab - Clinical Child and Family Trauma &amp; Coping Research Group Trauma Research and Recovery Lab Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .