#http://www.memphis.edu/lambuth/campuslife/campuslifecris.php
Campus Recreation Intramural Services - UofM Lambuth - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University of Memphis Lambuth Classes Admissions Campus Life Residence Student Services Campus Services Home UofM Lambuth Campus Life Campus Recreation Intramural Services Enjoy the Benefits of Wellness! UofM Lambuth's Wellness, Health &amp; Fitness Building is open Monday - Thursday, 12:00 pm - 8:00 pm, and Friday, 12:00 pm - 6:00 pm for recreational use. For questions or rental information, call Alejandro Herrera, Supervisor, Campus Recreation, 731.425.7328. Beginning Fall 2015: In order to encourage wellness among employees, students, and their household members, we are offering new opportunities for memberships at our on-campus fitness facilities. Although we were pleased to offer complimentary memberships to faculty and staff prior to this time, in order to continue providing members of the UofM Lambuth community with state-of-the art facilities and services, we are now offering memberships at very affordable prices. We are also now offering new opportunities for employees' and students' household members to enjoy membership privileges. Employees For a nominal fee, employees and their household members may access all of our recreational facilities. Our many amenities at UofM Lambuth include the recently renovated indoor pool and basketball courts in the Wellness, Health, and Fitness Building, state-of-the-art cardio and weight equipment in the Fitness Studio (located in Wilder Student Union), recently renovated tennis courts, a sand volleyball court, and group fitness classes. Intramural activities are also offered free-of-cost to students. Full-Time Students Full-time UofM students (enrolled in six hours or more) will continue to have free access to the Recreation Center. Student Household Membership Full-time students may purchase a membership to sponsor one other adult who lives in their same household and/or dependent children under 21 years of age. Cost is $60 per semester. Part-Time Students If enrolled in less than six hours, part-time students may access Recreation Center for $3 per use. Employees Full-time, permanent employees may purchase memberships at the following rates: Individual and Household Memberships for regular employees with base salary of $27,999 or less may pay $10 per month for Individual Memberships or $20 per month for Household Memberships (Members may sponsor one adult who lives in their household and/or dependent children under 21 years of age.). Regular employees with base salary of $28,000 or more may pay $13 per month for Individual Memberships or $26 per month for Household Memberships. Guests One guest is allowed per student or faculty/staff member for $5 per visit. Additional guest passes may be allowed at the discretion of the Recreation Supervisor. Summer Passes Beginning Summer 2016, students who were enrolled full-time (six hours or more) in the previous spring semester will be eligible to purchase summer passes. Cost is $45. About About the UofM Lambuth Contacts UofM Lambuth Contacts News News &amp; Events at the UofM Lambuth Programs Academic Programs Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .