#http://www.memphis.edu/bioinformatics/program/
Bioinformatics Program - Bioinformatics - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Bioinformatics About Programs Requirements People Research Areas Program Masters Major Field Core Biology Electives Thesis or Project Dual Majors Graduate Certificate Home Bioinformatics Masters Degree Plan Fall 2015/Spring 2016 Candidates entering with a Bachelor's Degree need satisfactory completion of 36 credit hours of graduate courses as approved by the Program Director. Major Field Core (16 hours required): BINF 7970 Current Lit in Bioinformatics BINF 7980 Research Seminar in Bioinformatics COMP 6030 Introduction to Algorithms or COMP 7712 Algorithms Implementation and Problem Solving COMP 7295 Introduction to Bioinformatics MATH 6635 Introduction to Probability Theory MATH 7643 Least/Sq Regr/Analysis Biology: 6 credit hours chosen from: BIOL 7131 Cell and Molecular Biology BIOL 7440 Molecular Biology of Cancer BINF 7701 Introduction to Genomics &amp; Bioinformatics BIOM 7004 Life Sciences I Electives: 9-12 credit hours chosen from: BIOL 6480 Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology BIOL 6470 Molecular Genetics BIOL 7704 Problems in Genome Science BIOM 7110 Biostatistics COMP 6014 Intro to Java Programming COMP 6081 Software Engineering COMP 6262 Programming in UNIX COMP 6601 Models of Computation COMP 7012 Foundation of Software Eng COMP 7115 Database Systems COMP 7116 Advanced Database Systems COMP 7118 Data Mining COMP 7212 Operating &amp; Distributed Systems COMP 7282 Evolutionary Computations COMP 7612 Foundations of Computing COMP 7740 Neural Networks COMP 7780 Natural Lang Processing MATH 6607 Introduction to SAS Programming MATH 6636 Intro Statistical Theory MATH 7221 Stat Gene Expression MATH 7607 Adv Prog in SAS MATH 7608 Statistical Programming with R MATH 7641 Analysis of Variance MATH 7642 Design of Experiments MATH 7647 Nonparametric Methods MATH 7657 Multivariate Methods MATH 7660 Applied Time Series Analysis MATH 7680 Bayesian Inference MATH 7685 Statistical Computing and Simulation MATH 7695 Bootstrap and Other Resampling Methods MIS 7605 Bus Database Sys PUBH 7150 Biostatistical Methods I PUBH 7152 Biostatistical Methods II Candidates may choose to focus on statistics or computer science by selecting from a large number of graduate classes offered in the respective departments as approved by the Program Director. Please refer to the Graduate Catalog for degree plan specifications. Research Research experience and understanding research principles are valuable skills in Bioinformatics, therefore up to 4 credit hours may be applied toward the degree requirement. BINF 7092 Research internship Practical experience is a valuable component of a graduate education. An Internship allows students to develop research projects and/or gain industry experience at different institutions in Memphis and across the country. Up to 3 credit hours of supervised internship may be applied toward the degree requirement. BINF 7991 Bioinformatics Internship Thesis or Project Candidates may choose to write and defend a thesis project. These candidates must complete the following classes: BINF 7996 Thesis or BINF 7992 Bioinformatics Project Dual Majors It is possible to obtain a Master's in Bioinformatics while working toward a Ph.D. Degree in other fields such as Biology, Computer Science, Mathematics, and Engineering. Interested students must have a minimum GPA of 3.0 and submit a change of status application form for evaluation and approval by the Program Director. Note: You must indicate that you will be finishing your current degree program to be considered a double major. For more information, email bioinformatics@memphis.edu. Program Masters Major Field Core Biology Electives Thesis or Project Dual Majors Graduate Certificate Apply to our Masters Program &gt; Earn a degree in an exciting and diverse field. Employment &amp; Internship Opportunities &gt; Find employment &amp; internship opportunities in Bioinformatics. News &amp; Events &gt; Weekly colloquium talks and other events Contact &gt; Questions? Let's talk! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .