#http://www.memphis.edu/graduateadmissions/readmit/evea.php
Eligibility Verification for Entitlement - Graduate Admissions - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Admissions Future Students Readmission International School of Law Undergraduate Readmission Getting Started Do I Need to Readmit? Academic Programs Graduate Catalog Apply for Admission Readmission Requirements Residency Information EVEA Application Deadline Border County Waiver Assistantships Apply Now! What to Expect Acknowledgement Application Review Admission Decision After Acceptance Registration ID Card Parking Fee Payment Home Graduate Admissions Readmission Eligibility Verification for Entitlement Eligibility Verification for Entitlements Act Your University of Memphis e-mail account and password are required to log-in. Tennessee law requires ALL NEW STUDENTS interested in enrolling at a college or university in Tennessee to provide proof of their legal presence before state benefits will be provided. To accommodate this law, the University of Memphis will accept this information soon after a student is granted admission. This law can be satisfied by submitting one of the following: The FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) - preferred ; A valid regular Tennessee driver’s license or photo identification license. A temporary Tennessee driver's license, temporary identification license, or out of state license is NOT acceptable ; A valid, unexpired, Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551) with picture; A valid, unexpired US passport; A certificate of citizenship (N560 or N561); A certificate of naturalization (N550, N570, or N578); A US citizen identification card (I-197, I-179); A valid, unexpired Foreign Passport with visa stamped "Processed for I-551"; Non-Resident Alien Canadian Border Crossing Card; Permanent Resident Re-Entry Permit (I-327); Refugee Travel Document (I-571); A valid, unexpired Foreign Passport with valid visa in a category that permits study at an institution of higher education ; Any document determined by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to be acceptable through the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) program. EVEA can also be satisfied by submitting a valid, government issued picture ID including a regular driver's license, temporary driver's license, government issued DL/ID card from any US state, Employment Authorization Document (Form I-766) together with one of the following: A valid, unexpired Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551) without a picture; An official birth certificate issued by a US state, jurisdiction, or territory; except for Puerto Rican birth certificates issued before July 1, 2010; A US government issued certified birth certificate; A US certificate of birth abroad (DS-1350 or FS-545); A reprint of a birth abroad of a citizen of the US (FS-240); Arrival/Departure Record (Form 1-94); Notice of Approval of Status with bottom I-94 portion attached (Form 1-797). Failure to provide the information requested will limit the UofM’s ability to award state and/or federal financial aid, and will impact how your tuition and fees will be assessed. This restriction does not impact privately funded scholarships. If you have questions about EVEA, feel free to email admissions@memphis.edu or call 901.678.2111. Readmission Getting Started Do I Need to Readmit? Academic Programs Graduate Catalog Apply for Admission Readmission Requirements Residency Information EVEA Application Deadline Border County Waiver Assistantships Apply Now! What to Expect Acknowledgement Application Review Admission Decision After Acceptance Registration ID Card Parking Fee Payment Apply Now! Ready to begin your graduate application? Request Information Learn more about your True Blue Future Graduate School Get more information about graduate programs. Contact Us Phone, email and location for Graduate Admissions Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .