#http://www.memphis.edu/space/process.php
Space Planning Process - Space Planning and Utilization - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Space Planning and Utilization Space Planning Process Space Policy Council Building Info Home Space Planning and Utilization Space Planning Process Space Planning Process Policies Issued: September 15, 2003 Responsible Executive Officer: Provost Responsible Office: Space Planning and Utilization Policy Statement All space under University control is to be assigned and used for the highest priority needs of the University as a whole. Departments and activities may be assigned space for use, but all space belongs to the University, not to a particular college, school, department, or activity and is subject to reassignment. The University will maintain an accurate and complete record of space assignments and utilization for internal management and external reports. The President will appoint a Space Policy Council, through the Office of the Provost, to address changing programmatic space needs, to develop effective methods to analyze and evaluate space requests, and to allocate facility resources. The President will appoint members on an annual basis and appoint the chair and vice chair from among the voting members. Purpose To establish procedures and processes for planning, assignment, reassignment, and reporting space usage. Procedures Assignment and Reassignment of Space 1. Requests for the assignment of new or additional space will be submitted to Space Planning and Utilization by the requesting department. The Request for Space Change Form will be used to make this request. 2. Space Planning and Utilization will review the request, secure additional information to assist in evaluating it, discuss it with appropriate officials, and provide other information and analysis related to the request. Space Planning and Utilization may initiate alternate reassignment recommendations. When a request involves physical modifications, a copy will be provided to Campus Planning and Design and Physical Plant for review. 3. Requests and Space Planning and Utilization evaluations will be submitted to the Space Policy Council for their review and determination. 4. Any official or group in the process may request additional information or consideration of other alternatives. Physical Facilities Inventory Space Planning and Utilization will be responsible for the annual submission of the Physical Facilities Inventory as requested by the Tennessee Higher Education Commission through the Tennessee Board of Regents. Information related to the Physical Facilities Inventory is to be kept current and accurate as it is directly related to the University appropriations for facility improvements and new construction. Scheduling Of Classes Classrooms designated as general purpose are centrally scheduled by the Office of the Registrar. Classrooms and class laboratories designated as departmental controlled are scheduled by the departments. Changes in designation require approval of the dean(s) responsible for the room(s) and the provost. Change of classroom use to another use requires approval as described above in Assignment and Reassignment of Space. An impact report from the Registrar’s Office should be included with any requests for changes in a classroom usage or classroom designation. Space Policy Council 1. The President will appoint members to the Space Policy Council on an annual basis. 2. The Council will be comprised of the following members: One representative from each of the following offices: (1) President; (2) Provost; (3) Business and Finance; (4) Advancement and Marketing; (5) Information Technology; (6) Student Affairs; (7) Research; (8) Registrar Four deans, including the dean of Arts and Sciences One representative from the Student Government Association Chair and co-chair of the Facilities and Services Committee One representative from the Faculty Senate One representative from the Staff Senate One representative from Public Safety (ex-officio, non-voting) Director for Space Planning and Utilization (ex-officio, non-voting) Assistant Vice President Campus Planning &amp; Design (ex-officio, non-voting) Assistant Vice President Physical Plant (ex-officio, non-voting) Space Analyst for Space Planning and Utilization (recording secretary, ex-officio, non-voting) 3. The chair and vice chair are to be appointed by the President from among the voting members. 4. The Space Policy Council is a decision-making body regarding space issues. It will provide a forum for the discussion and approval of individual space requests, campus-wide space plans, plans for new space, space utilization reports, policies and procedures regulating the use of facilities, and other critical space planning issues that require policy level deliberation. Some decisions are of such magnitude that deliberation and support from the executive officers of the University are needed for a high probability of successful implementation. In such circumstances, the Council may be called upon to provide an analysis of options and a recommendation for consideration. 5. The Council will not be responsible for event scheduling or assignment of space for events. 6. The Council shall provide an annual activity report to the executive officers. The Council will advise on the full range of policies and procedures affecting space planning, management and reporting, and will make recommendations on specific space assignment and reassignments. Space Standards, Analysis and Evaluation 1. Space Planning and Utilization will develop appropriate standards for space assignment and utilization following those established by the Tennessee Higher Education Commission. 2. Space Planning and Utilization will perform various analyses and evaluations. 3. The Space Policy Council may provide recommendations on the various standards, analyses, and evaluations. Reporting Changes in Use or Assignment of Space Every department or activity with assigned space will report any change in the assignment or functional use of space. The Request for Space Change Form is to be used for this purpose. Changes in assignment or utilization will not be accomplished until approval is received. After approval is received, Space Planning and Utilization will transmit the change in assignment or usage to the data stewards of the systems with room data (e.g., Archibus, Resources 25, Student Information System). A Request for Space Change Form should be submitted in the following instances: a) The space is reassigned from one organizational unit to another (at the lowest organizational level). Only minor reassignments will be accomplished without following the procedures. Use of the Request for Space Change Form for reassignments will be limited to reassignments under the same dean or director. The form must be approved by an official who is organizationally responsible for both the old and new units, then routed to the Space Planning and Utilization for approval. b) The function of the space is changed so that the room use changes. The Request for Space Change Form must be approved by an official one organizational level above the department or activity utilizing the space, then routed to Space Planning and Utilization for approval. c) Physical alterations occur which cause a change in the square footage of a room. The Request for Space Change Form must be approved by an official one organizational level above the department/activity utilizing the space. This request will also be forwarded by Space Planning and Utilization to Campus Planning and Design and Physical Plant for their review, then routed back to Space Planning and Utilization for approval. 3. The request form is not required for other changes, such as reassignment of a faculty office from one faculty member to another. 4. When space is reassigned between organizational units with different heads, the original department will report only the reassignment, identifying the new unit. The new unit will also report the change and provide the explanation of the new usage. 5. Changes in assignment or room use which are not expected to be permanent should be reported if the change exists for longer than six months. What We Do Routine management of almost 6 million square feet of space Who We Are We are Space Planning and Utilization Request a Change Access the Request for Space Change Form Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .