#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbeinternships/academics/students.php
Searching For An Internship - FCBE Internships - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Internships Welcome Programs Students Faculty &amp; Staff Research News FCBE Students Earning Academic Internship Credit FCBE Internship Application / Instructions Student Login Searching For An Internship Employers Employer Login Developing Your Internship Program With FCBE Students FAQs University Internships Home FCBE Internships Academics Searching For An Internship Searching For An Internship In addition to potential future employment, here are additional potential benefits from an internship: Earn Academic Credit With An Approved Internship Build Your Professional Portfolio and Profile Increase Marketability Through Valuable “Real-world” Experience Build your Professional Network and References Gain Career Insight and Development For Future Career Opportunities An internship is an important career development opportunity. Through an internship, you gain valuable skills and begin to build your resume. Students are encouraged to have a minimum of one internship prior to graduation. Optimally, more than one internship will diversify your experience and career preparation. However, it’s important to enter an internship search prepared and ready for the experience. How do you prepare for an internship search? First be sure that your resume has followed the FCBE Career Corner formats. These formats were recommended by business professionals and we encourage you to draft your résumé using these formats and then set an appointment with the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center. Please contact the Professional Development Center at professional@memphis.edu for an appointment after you have drafted your resume in one of the interview formats at the FCBE Career Corner , Résumé Development . Be sure to have the resume draft with you when you come to the Professional Development Center, room 274. Secondly, get professionally prepared! Employers today want students to be professionally prepared in terms of career skills such as networking, etiquette, interview awareness, communication and teamwork skills. The Complete Professional Program offers training opportunities to assist students in developing these employer-requested skills. See for more information about how to start your career search through the Complete Professional Program. Information is also available in the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center, room 274 of the FCBE classroom building. Interested in earning academic credit for an internship? Click here to learn how to earn course credit for your internship experience. Students Earning Academic Internship Credit FCBE Internship Application / Instructions Student Login Searching For An Internship Employers Employer Login Developing Your Internship Program With FCBE Students FAQs University Internships For Students An internship is an important career development opportunity. Through an internship, you gain valuable skills and begin to build your resume! For Employers Internships are a great way to provide college students an opportunity to learn while your organization benefits from new talent! FAQs Do you have questions? We have answers here! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .