#http://www.memphis.edu/bioinformatics/requirements/
Bioinformatics Program - Bioinformatics - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Bioinformatics About Programs Requirements People Research Areas Requirements Admission Prerequisites Application Procedure Dual Majors Graduate Certificate Home Bioinformatics Requirements Bioinformatics Masters Degree Program Admissions Admission Requirements Applicants must meet the University's requirements for admission to the Graduate School . Specific requirements: GRE scores are required and are an important factor for admission; Two letters of recommendation; A minimum score of 550 on the paper-based TOEFL, 210 on the computer-based TOEFL, or 80 on the internet-based TOEFL (for students whose native language is not English); An undergraduate degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale; A letter of intent and statement of purpose, explaining your reasons for applying to the Bioinformatics Program. Prerequisites Satisfactory completion of at least two undergraduate level courses in each of the following disciplines: biology, mathematics and computer science. Students should have some background in computer programming, data structures, statistics, and molecular biology. Students deficient in prerequisite courses will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Application Procedure 1. For information on how to apply to the University of Memphis Graduate School click here 2. The following items must be sent directly to: Office of Graduate Admissions, The University of Memphis , 101 Wilder Tower, Memphis, TN 38152-3370 Official transcripts Official scores for GRE and TOEFL 3. The following items must be submitted to: Bioinformatics Admission, University of Memphis, 402 Smith Chemistry Bldg., Memphis, TN 38152. Submit an Application to the BINF program Two letters of recommendation Letter of intent and statement of purpose Dual Majors It is possible to obtain a Master's in Bioinformatics while working toward a Ph.D. Degree in other fields such as Biology, Computer Science, Mathematics, and Engineering. Interested students must have a minimum GPA of 3.0 and submit a change of status application form for evaluation and approval by the Program Director. Note: You must indicate that you will be finishing your current degree program to be considered a double major. For more information, visit or contact the Bioinformatics Director: Dr. Ramin Homayouni, bioinformatics@memphis.edu. Graduate Certificate in Bioinformatics The Certificate in Bioinformatics will provide training in genomics, statistics and computer science to students with a background in other scientific disciplines. The goals of the program are to provide: Knowledge of probability and statistics, statistical tools, and application of statistical methods to genomics and health related areas. Knowledge of computer programming, data structures and algorithm design. Knowledge of genomic technologies and analysis of genomic data. ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS To apply for admission, students must fill out the University of Memphis online application. Applicants must have a bachelor's degree in science or engineering with a minimum GPA of 2.75. International students must have a TOEFL score of 550 (paper-based), 213 (computer-based), or 79 (internet-based). Applicants must also submit the following documents to the Bioinformatics program coordinator (bioinformatics@memphis.edu): A one page personal statement about their research interests, prior preparation and experience related to the objectives of the program, and long-range career/professional plans. Two letters of recommendation. Students who are currently enrolled in a Master's or Doctoral program at the University of Memphis or other universities will be eligible for admission into the Bioinformatics Certificate Program based on the recommendation from their graduate advisor. PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS Completion of 15 semester hours distributed as follows: COMP 6001 Computer Programming (3 hr) COMP 6030 Design and Analysis of Algorithms (3 hr) BINF 7701 Introduction to Genomics and Bioinformatics (3 hr) PUBH 7150 Biostatistical Methods I (3 hr) PUBH 7153 Biostatistics in Bioinformatics (3 hr) GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS Student must complete all five required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher, for a total of 15 credit hours. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit the Intent to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. Requirements Admission Prerequisites Application Procedure Dual Majors Graduate Certificate Apply to our Masters Program &gt; Earn a degree in an exciting and diverse field. Employment &amp; Internship Opportunities &gt; Find employment &amp; internship opportunities in Bioinformatics. News &amp; Events &gt; Weekly colloquium talks and other events Contact &gt; Questions? Let's talk! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .