#http://www.memphis.edu/space/spacepolicycouncil.php
Space Policy Council - Space Planning and Utilization - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Space Planning and Utilization Space Planning Process Space Policy Council Building Info Home Space Planning and Utilization Space Policy Council Space Policy Council Introduction The University’s facilities are a resource that must be viewed from a comprehensive institutional perspective. In order to address changing programmatic space needs, the University must develop effective methods to analyze and evaluate space requests and allocate facility resources. This will be accomplished through the establishment of a University Space Policy Council through the Office of the Provost. The President will appoint members to the Space Policy Council on an annual basis. The Chair and Vice Chair shall be appointed by the President from among the voting members. Proposed Composition Representative from the Office of the President Representative from the Provost Office Representative from Business and Finance Representative from Advancement and Marketing Representative from Information Systems Representative from Student Affairs Representative from Research Office Dean of Arts &amp; Sciences Three Deans from colleges other than Arts &amp; Sciences Representative from the Office of the Registrar Representative from the Student Government Association Chair and Co-Chair of the Facilities and Services Committee Faculty Senate representative Staff Senate representative EX-OFFICIO, NON-VOTING: Director for Space Planning and Utilization Space Analyst for Space Planning and Utilization (Recording Secretary) Charge The Space Policy Council is a decision-making body regarding space issues. As such, it will provide a forum for the discussion and approval of individual space requests, campus-wide space plans, plans for new space, space utilization reports, policies and procedures regulating the use of facilities, and other critical space planning issues that require policy level deliberation. A few decisions are of such magnitude that deliberation and support from the Executive Officers of the University are needed for a high probability of successful implementation. In such circumstances, the Council may be called upon to provide an analysis of options and a recommendation for consideration, including legal, environmental, and budgetary issues. The Council Chair and Vice Chair, in consultation with the Director for Space Planning and Utilization, will work with the Provost to determine if a space issue has potential policy ramifications and thus should be placed on the agenda for a regular Council meeting. Agenda items should be established prior to the meeting date so that materials for discussion can be made available to Council members in advance. The Chair and Vice Chair will preside over regular Council meetings and will coordinate with the Provost to ensure that activities are aligned in such a way as to be most beneficial to the decision-making process and a productive operational environment. The Council will be responsible for obtaining input from various sources as appropriate and may create advisory sub-committees to examine and recommend decisions about specific issues. However, the Council will consult with the Provost before delegating specifically stated decision-making authority, such as the prioritization of requested modifications. NOTE: The Council will not be responsible for event scheduling, assignment of space for events, or assignment of space for classes. However changes in classroom usage to something other than a classroom category requires the approval of the Council. Guidelines for Council Operation The Space Policy Council consists of members representing constituencies from all segments of the University. Members will simultaneously represent both the overall University and their constituency area. Members should strive to cultivate good communication links to solicit input and to provide feedback to constituencies regarding the rationale leading to decisions, standards, or policies. Each member should use his or her foremost judgment, based upon an understanding of what constitutes the best overall solution for the institution as a whole. When recommendations have been reached members need to assume responsibility, wherever possible, to assure outcomes that contribute to the mission, goals, and best interest of the University. As a policy-oriented body, the Council's primary focus should be on the following points: (1) to assure that the space process is functioning productively; (2) to define and prioritize parameters and processes to be utilized in operational decision-making, (3) to define and approve policies and procedures, including detailed forms and instructions for requesting space use changes, (4) to ensure that recommendations from the advisory sub-committees have appropriately considered options, costs, and benefits and determine if additional analysis should be conducted; and (5) in a few circumstances where a decision between alternatives has policy or program implications, to weigh the competing options based on the best interests of the institution as a whole and recommend to the Provost which option to implement. Any Executive Officer of the University may request the Provost to review such a recommendation if it has policy or operational impacts upon his/her administrative unit. Role of the Director for Space Planning and Utilization The Director for Space Planning and Utilization will process routine space assignments that do not require Council action. Examples of these assignments are: Reassignment of offices within a department/unit due to turnover of employees. Temporary assignments to allow construction or space renovations to occur. llocation of space that is unsuitable for occupation or use other than temporary storage. The Director will also work with the University faculty and staff to acquire input on space issues, requests, proposals, and to provide technical assistance and guidance to the Council. As an ex-officio, non-voting, member the Director for Space Planning and Utilization will: Develop and maintain long-range space utilization plans for all University facilities with input from the Council. Develop and recommend space assignment policies and procedures, with input from the Council, for the University in accordance with THEC standards. Support the Council's efforts to consider requests and recommend changes in space utilization within existing buildings; prepare data analysis reports and impact reports as required for inclusion with Council recommendations. Support the Council's efforts to recommend the assignment of space within new buildings or buildings that have been vacant and are being reoccupied. Review the leasing to non-University occupants of any real property assigned to the University, including land, buildings, and other improvements. Review the leasing by the University of any non-University real property, including land, buildings, and other improvements. Agenda items should be submitted prior to the meeting date so that materials for discussion can be made available to Council members in advance. The chair and vice chair will review requests with the Provost to set the agenda for the Council meetings and determine what additional information is needed to ensure the meeting is productive. Meetings Meetings will be held monthly, or as necessary. Annual Report Due on or before July 15 and shall contain at least the following information: log of requests received with note of disposition, such record to be open to the University community; assignments recommended by the Committee; unresolved space requests; an outline of unresolved issues which might be considered, discussed, and acted upon during the following year; a report on contributions of Committee members; and any recommendations for membership on the following year's Committee. What We Do Routine management of almost 6 million square feet of space Who We Are We are Space Planning and Utilization Request a Change Access the Request for Space Change Form Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .