#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbeinternships/academics/faqs.php
FAQs - FCBE Internships - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Internships Welcome Programs Students Faculty &amp; Staff Research News FCBE Students Earning Academic Internship Credit FCBE Internship Application / Instructions Student Login Searching For An Internship Employers Employer Login Developing Your Internship Program With FCBE Students FAQs University Internships Home FCBE Internships Academics FAQs Internships FAQs What is eRecruiting? eRecruiting is an electronic job posting board that we have at the university. Every student has an account on this system. Most internships are posted on eRecruiting while others are only posted on the Fogelman Internship Network. Review both networks for open opportunities. In addition, students are required to apply to many of these internship opportunities via eRecruiting, so it is to their benefit that they familiarize themselves with how it works. Do I have to get an internship through eRecruiting to get credit? No, you are more than welcome to search for internships from other sites or through your own contacts. Where else can I look for internships besides eRecruiting and the Fogelman Internship Network? Remember to utilize your networking four ‘F’s: Friends Family Members Faculty Fellow Classmates I did an internship last semester. Can I get credit for it this semester? No, past experience cannot be applied for credit. I work full-time. Can my current job count as an internship? Internships are learning-based experiences, so they must relate to your major and involve opportunities for significant learning. Additional arrangements may have to be discussed with your supervisor. How do I get my résumé approved? First, go to the Career Corner on our Fogelman home page, and choose one of our employer-approved formats. Prior to making an appointment with Ms. Jane Brooks, be sure to put your résumé into our FCBE format. Once approved, it will be uploaded onto the Fogelman Internship Network to be viewed by employers. Then, make an appointment with Ms. Brooks for a review of your résumé in the appropriate template. Only résumés in the templates will be added to the Fogelman Internship Network (FIN). I’m really nervous about my upcoming internship interview. What can I do to prepare? Ms. Jane Brooks in the Professional Development Center can help you! Contact her via email for an appointment. I’m not sure if my resume format is adequate. Where can I go for help? Things to consider for your resume include: honors, awards, achievements, extracurricular activities, certifications in software programs, special knowledge and skills, club memberships, leadership positions, volunteer work, and, of course work experience. Do not discount your work experience just because it may not relate to the job you’re applying for; transferable skills are very valuable. If you need more assistance, visit the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center in the Fogelman classroom building, room 274. How long do internships usually last? How many hours per week are required? On average, internships last a few months, but it can vary from employer to employer. Interns usually work part-time during the week (15-20 hours/week). Employers can be flexible towards student schedules. Are internships paid? What is the general pay range? Internships are generally paid. Some employers may require school credit for compensation if the internship is unpaid. The average pay for FCBE interns is usually between $10 - $12/hour. How many students get full-time offers? A recent survey of employers by the National Association of Colleges and Employers indicated that almost 2/3rds of interns were offered full-time positions upon completion of their internship experience. What companies offer internships? We have received internship opportunities from FedEx, Wright Medical Technology, Morgan Keegan, CH Robinson Worldwide, Inc., UBS Financial Services, Oden Marketing &amp; Design, ThyssenKrupp Elevator, ALSAC/St. Jude’s Research Hospital, ServiceMaster, and Dunavant Enterprises, Inc. just to name a few. How far along do I have to be in my academic program to obtain an internship? This is usually up to the company and its needs and requests. For credit in your major, you need to be at least of junior status (60 hours) and have 15 hours of upper division level coursework successfully completed. How beneficial is an internship? Many employers consider an internship the new “entry level” job. We encourage you to have a minimum of one internship prior to graduation. An internship can provide you with the opportunity to ‘try out’ a particular profession. You might think of this as a long first date! In addition, more and more employers today are treating internships as their primary talent pipeline. Many firms have moved to only hiring former interns for full-time positions. Who do I contact for more information about internships or the status of my application? Internships: fcbeintern@memphis.edu Application status: Undergraduate Student Services Office Fogelman Admin. Building 114 901-678-2855 I am seeking interns to work for my company. Who do I contact? fcbeintern@memphis.edu Students Earning Academic Internship Credit FCBE Internship Application / Instructions Student Login Searching For An Internship Employers Employer Login Developing Your Internship Program With FCBE Students FAQs University Internships For Students An internship is an important career development opportunity. Through an internship, you gain valuable skills and begin to build your resume! For Employers Internships are a great way to provide college students an opportunity to learn while your organization benefits from new talent! FAQs Do you have questions? We have answers here! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .