#http://www.memphis.edu/museumstudies/admissions/
Admission Guidelines - Museum Studies - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies About Program Admission Courses Requirements Faculty Admissions Application Form Recommendation Request Form Home Museum Studies Admissions Guidelines for Admission Students currently admitted to a graduate program at the University of Memphis or another university and individuals already holding a graduate degree (MA, MFA, MS, PhD) may apply for admission to the Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies. Students already enrolled in a graduate program are required to have a minimum GPA of 3.0 for admission to the Museum Studies certificate program. Students may not be concurrently enrolled in more than one certificate program at a time. Students attending an institution of higher education other than the University of Memphis must apply to the Graduate School for admission as a Non-Degree Seeking student. In rare instances, students who have completed an undergraduate degree program, but who have not been admitted to a graduate program, may apply and will be considered for admission to the program on an individual basis. For more information on this option, contact Dr. Luebbers. All applications to the museum studies certificate program will be reviewed by the Admissions and Advisory Committee. The Committee may also interview prospective students in order to ensure a good fit between the program and the individual student's needs. To apply, students must - 1. be admitted to the Graduate School of The University of Memphis or another institution of higher education. If the student is in a graduate program outside of the University of Memphis, or is already in possession of a graduate degree, the student must apply to the Graduate School as a non-degree seeking student and must submit the following to the Program in Museum Studies at the address given below - 2. send the completed Application Form to the Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies 3. submit a letter from the applicant describing the student's reasons for wishing to acquire a graduate certificate in the area of museum studies and how the program corresponds with prior experience and anticipated career plans; and 4. submit three sealed letters of recommendation along with the approved Recommendation Request Form from each recommender. DEADLINES: The deadline for applications to the Museum Studies Certificate Program for Fall semester 2016 is April 4, 2016 . Deadlines for applications for graduate study in specific programs at the University of Memphis for FALL 2016 are set by the individual departments. Please check the appropriate links from The Graduate School - Academic Degree Programs web page. Note: Deadlines for admission to the Graduate School are usually later than Departmental program deadlines. If you submit your application using the Graduate School's deadlines, you will have missed most Departmental cut off dates and your application will be delayed at least one semester. Deadlines for Financial Aid applications at The University of Memphis for FALL 2015 vary. Some deadlines may have passed. Please check the appropriate links from The Graduate School - Fellowships, Awards, and Federal Financial Aid web page. MAIL THE MUSEUM STUDIES APPLICATION PACKET TO: Program in Museum Studies Art Museum The University of Memphis 142 Communication &amp; Fine Arts Bldg. Memphis, TN 38152-3200 Inquiries may be directed to Dr. Leslie Luebbers, Director of the Art Museum (lluebbrs@memphis.edu) Admissions Application Form Recommendation Request Form Student Wiki Check out our student-maintained Wikispace for more information about the program and Museum Studies opportunities! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .