#http://www.memphis.edu/benefits/pdf/educf15.pdf
201 Educational Assistan Programs Notice University Benefits Administration Office 165 Administration Building Staff Scholarship and Spouse/Dependent Discount programs Completed application forms are due by , 201, two weeks prior to the fee payment Fee payment deadlines are published online. Forregistration after , 201, applications are due , 201.These deadlin es are to ensu re proc essing of fe es prio r to the fee payment deadline. Form s are availabl e online or in the Universit y Benefits Administratio n offic e, 165 Administration Building. PC-191 Fee Waiver Completed application forms are due by , 201, two weeks prior to the fee payment registration date. Fee payment deadlines are published online. PC-191 courses are approved for enrollment on a space available basis only; therefore, the sessions,the registration start date is 7, 201 .If an employee registers prior to the 7, 201 , the PC-191 waiver will not beapproved. Please do not submit a PC-191 application if you registered prior to this date.The PC-191 provides payment of fees for one (1) course per term, including the RODP online program tuition. Forms are available online or in the University Benefits Administration office, 165 Administration Building. Other important points to remember for all Education Assistance Programs Upon submission of an application and registration, eligibility will be verified and the discount or waiver for courses taken at the University of Memphis will be applied (paid) via the Banner Student System. We cannot enter the amount of payment until registration is complete. It is extremely important that you submit applications on a timely basis for payment to be made prior to the fee payment deadline. If paymen t is not made by the appropriat e fee paymen t deadlin e, your registration of classes is subjec t to deletion and a late payment fe e may be assessed. Always refer to the website for registration dates and the for specific fee payment deadlines new fee payment policy Spring 2014. The status of your registration and fee payment can be verified by clicking the Student tab through the My Memphis portal at .The student is responsible for payment of all other course fees including online course fees by the appropriate fee payment deadline. Please view/pay your account balance on TigerXpress at the Account$ tab through the My Memphis portal at .With departmental approval and an adjusted work schedule, an employee may take one class during normal work hours under either the Staff Scholarship or the PC-191 Fee Waiver Program. Employe es using any of the Educational Assistance Programs a t other Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) or University of Tennessee (UT) institutions should submit applications using thesame deadlines. The employee will be contacted to pick up the approved form from Benefits Administration office so that it may be submitted to the appropriate school for fee payment/waiver/discount. ** In accordance with Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 127, up to course tuition per calendar year paid and/or waived under the educational assistance programs is eligible for exclusion from the employees gross annual income. However, any amount paid/waived under the educational assistance programs that exceeds $5,250 is subject to taxes and will be included as taxable income in Box 1 on your W-2. The University of Memphis will withhold FICA and Med-FICA (Social Security) tax only from these payments. The employee will be responsible for any federal withholding regarding this additional income. Contact Information: contact the University Benefits Administration office at 678-3573 or email benefits@memphis.edu.