#http://oir.memphis.edu/WebReports/GainfulEmployment/GEPrograms/gedt-003509-13.0101.htm
ED Gainful Employment Disclosure Template Filter states UnitID Name Address City State Zip The ability to pay off your student loans is dependent on several factors, two of which are how much debt you accrue to complete your program and how much you are earning at your job after completing it. These two measures ( the "repayment rate" and the "debt-to-earnings ratio") are included to inform you about whether previous students in this program are successfully paying back their loans and how much of a burden it is on their monthly budget to do so. Name of the state this placement rate is calculated for: Who is included in the calculation of this rate? What types of jobs were these students placed in? When were the former students employed? How were completers tracked? Name of the accrediting agency this placement rate is calculated for: Who is included in the calculation of this rate? What types of jobs were these students placed in? When were the former students employed? How were completers tracked? Click on the links below for more information on jobs related to this program: Program name Program Level - Program Length - How much will this program cost me?* Tuition and fees: Books and supplies: On-campus room & board: What other costs are there for this program? For further program cost information click here. * The amounts shown above include costs for the entire program, assuming normal time to completion. Note that this information is subject to change. What financing options are available to help me pay for this program? Financing for this program may be available through grants, scholarships, loans (federal and private) and institutional financing plans. The median amount of debt for program graduates is shown below: Federal loans: Private education loans: Institutional financing plan: * There were fewer than 10 graduates in this program. Median amounts are withheld to preserve the confidentiality of graduates. The school has elected to provide the following additional information: XX % of program graduates used loans to help finance their costs for this program. How long will it take me to complete this program? The program is designed to take XX months to complete. Of those that completed the program in 2014-2015, XX % finished in XX months . * Fewer than 10 students completed this program in 2014-15. The number who finished within the normal time has been withheld to preserve the confidentiality of the students. What are my chances of getting a job when I graduate? The job placement rate for students who completed this program is XX %. For further information about this job placement rate, click here . For further information about this job placement rate, click here . Both the institution's state and accreditor require the calculation of a job placement rate for this program. Accreditor Rate: The job placement rate for students who completed this program is XX %. For further information about this job placement rate, click here . State Rate: The job placement rate for students who completed this program is XX %. For further information about this job placement rate, click here . * This institution is not currently required to calculate a job placement rate for program completers. * We are required to calculate this information; however, due to privacy concerns, we are unable to provide this data. For additional information related to this program and/or the information provided above, click here . Date Created: