#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/research/kv63.php
Tomb 63 in the Valley of the Kings - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Research Tomb 63 in the Valley of the Kings Valley of the Kings Tomb 63 - Spring 2006 On February 9, 2006 , the Supreme Council of Antiquities of Egypt announced the discovery of a new tomb in the Valley of the Kings . This tomb, designated KV 63, was found by a mission of the University of Memphis ' Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology working in collaboration with Egypt's Supreme Council of Antiquities. University of Memphis team members in the Valley of the Kings (from right) Dr. Lorelei Corcoran (Director, IEAA), Dr. Otto Schaden (Director, Amenmesse &amp; KV 63 Tomb Projects), and Sharon Nichols (University of Memphis graduate student). Image courtesy L.H. Corcoran. The new tomb was discovered in the Valley of the Kings by a project focused on preserving and recording a tomb originally made for King Amenmesse (KV 10), but actually used for the burials of two queens, Takhet and Baketwerel. Work on the Amenmesse Tomb Project (KV 10) was begun by Dr. Otto Schaden, in collaboration with the Supreme Council of Antiquities, in the early 1990s. In 1995 the project joined the Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology of the University of Memphis. Tomb of Amenmesse, screening newly excavated material for artifacts prior to the discovery of the new tomb. Image courtesy L.H. Corcoran. The entrance to the new tomb is located just to the east of the entrance to the tomb of Amenmesse (KV 10) and about 25 meters south of the tomb of Tutankhamon (KV 62). The tomb consists of a vertical shaft and a chamber directly adjacent to the shaft. The burial chamber holds seven wooden anthropoid ("human-shaped") coffins with painted faces, about twenty pottery jars, and other materials that will come to light as the clearing of the tomb progresses. According to Dr. Lorelei Corcoran , Director of the Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology and member of the team, "We do not know as yet the names, titles or status of the individuals who may have been buried there ... and will not know ... until we can examine and analyze the material thoroughly. ... Dr. Otto Schaden, project director and adjunct professor of the University of Memphis, has been working at the site for fourteen years, beginning with the clearance of the nearby tomb of King Amenmesse. In 2001, he discovered workmen's huts to the west of the tomb. This season work continued on the excavation of workmen's huts of the 19th dynasty that lie to the east of Amenmesse. In the course of this excavation the top of a shaft was revealed that lead to a door that concealed the burial chamber containing multiple wooden, black painted, anthropoid coffins and numerous pottery vessels ... We will continue to work carefully to resolve the mysteries surrounding this tomb." "Opening Day" at the new tomb. Dr. Zahi Hawass (right), Secretary General of the Egyptian Supreme Council of Antiquities and Dr. Lorelei H. Corcoran (left), Director of the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology of the University of Memphis. Image courtesy L.H. Corcoran. Archive Links to News Articles and Images of KV 63 "UofM-Sponsored Find in Egypt Promises more 'Wonderful Things'" Official University of Memphis press release, February 9, 2006 "Egypt unveils pharaonic embalming bed" Google News May 19, 2009 "Ancient flowers found in Egypt coffin" National Geographic October 1, 2008 "KV 63 from Dr. Otto Schaden" Amenmesse Tomb Project Website for KV 63 "KV63" Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia "Dr. Zahi Hawass Reveals the New Tomb in the Valley of the Kings" "A Long-Buried Tomb is Opened in Egypt" February 11, 2006 "Audio: New Discoveries at Egyptian Tomb" February 10, 2006 - Dr. Corcoran talks to NPR "Egypt offers first look at newly discovered tomb" MSNBC February 10, 2006 (updated) "Pharaonic tomb find stuns Egypt" BBC February 10, 2006 "Egypt gives first look at new tomb" February 10, 2006 To ensure that your computer displays the latest update, click on the "Refresh" or "Reload" button at the top of your screen. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .