#http://www.memphis.edu/gradschool/programs/graduatecertificates.php
Graduate Certificate Programs - Graduate School - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate School Future Students Current Students Faculty/Staff Programs Events Resources Degree Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Graduate School Contact Information Accelerated Bachelors/Master's Degrees Nationally Ranked Programs Home Graduate School Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Graduate Certificate Programs African American Literature As we enter the opening decades of the twenty-first century, interest in African American literary studies continues to flourish. By preparing students to teach African American Literature and giving official recognition of preparation, the certificate program helps graduates qualify for jobs both within the United States and abroad. Gainful Employment Disclosure . Applied Lean Leadership This graduate certificate provides students with competitive knowledge and skills for jobs in which Lean is practiced, and a cost-effective way to upgrade technical skills in Lean techniques. The certificate is intended for the student who has a bachelor's degree and who is currently working full-time in a production or service industry, and is specifically interested in learning about Lean principles and practices. Based on the Society of Manufacturing Engineers' "Lean Certification Body of Knowledge," a student who completes the certificate program will be expected to be able to pass the SME/AME/Shingo prize, Lean Certification Exam at the Bronze level. Gainful Employment Disclosure Artist Diploma in Music The Artist Diploma is a certificate program providing concentrated post-baccalaureate training for prospective professional musicians. Currently it is offered in voice and violin; it involves lessons and recitals at the School of Music and an internship at Opera Memphis (for singers) or the Memphis Symphony (for violinists). Gainful Employment Disclosure Autism Studies The purpose of the Graduate Certificate in Autism Studies is to provide practical educational training to individuals who are presently working within healthcare, adult disability and/or educational settings. Individuals completing this post baccalaureate certificate program will be able to provide evidence-based decisions specific to the treatment and education of people with ASD, design and implement highly specialized evidence based instructional programs for people with ASD, and design and implement common behavior management strategies shown to be effective for people with ASD. Gainful Employment Disclosure . Bioinformatics Bioinformatics is a rapidly growing interdisciplinary field which combines mathematical and computational sciences with biology and/or medicine. The graduate certificate program in Bioinformatics will enable students from unrelated scientific disciplines to transition to a career in data sciences in commercial, academic or healthcare research settings. Students will gain knowledge in applied statistics, statistical tools, computer programming, data structures, algorithm design, molecular biology and genomics. Business Information Assurance The primary purpose of this certificate program is to prepare participants to be able to make effective decisions regarding information assurance strategies. Students will become familiar with various methodologies for maintaining business continuity in case of an attack or disaster and will become knowledgeable about policy development, implementation techniques, employee awareness and training, assessment of effectiveness of security programs, as well as various other factors that result in long-term managerial effectiveness. Gainful Employment Disclosure Business Intelligence and Analytics The business analytics discipline has become very important in information systems and industry, due to increased access to big data, unstructured and structured data, and strategic business decision making. These increasingly complex decision making capabilities lead directly to competitive advantage and increased profits. Thus, trained business analysts with skills in addressing data management and business intelligence and analytics are in high demand. The certificate program requires completion of 12 semester credit hours. Gainful Employment Disclosure . Business Project Management This certificate satisfies a demand for business project management professionals in our region without requiring addition resources. It also creates untapped research opportunities and collaborations for our faculty with the project management community. Gainful Employment Disclosure . Career and College Counseling The certificate in College and Career Counseling is an online and field based post-degree program designed to address contemporary issues related to career and college counseling in schools. The certificate focuses on developing technical skills and expertise to effectively prepare students to transition from high school to college or from high school to vocational programs. The program is committed to addressing contemporary issues influencing the field, by building awareness of social justice issues in the college going process and utilizing student achievement data as a lever to design programs that strategically target the achievement gap. Gainful Employment Disclosure . Cognitive Science The primary objective of this certificate is to supply graduate students interested in Cognitive Science with interdisciplinary training in the major fields of Cognitive Science, Cognitive Psychology, Artificial Intelligence and Linguistics. The main focus is to develop core competencies to support research in cognitive science as well as applications in human-computer interaction, information systems, advertising and marketing, and design. Gainful Employment Disclosure College Teaching There are many who are qualified to teach in colleges today. But only few can say they are quality teachers. A certificate in College Teaching equips Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) with the knowledge and skill in effective college teaching methods. Gainful Employment Disclosure Community College Teaching &amp; Leadership Studies show that over 60 percent of the nation's community college professionals will reach retirement eligibility during the next 15 years. The Certificate in Community College Teaching and Leadership is designed to prepare the next generation of community college administrators and faculty. Gainful Employment Disclosure Disabilities Studies This certificate program provides training for professionals who have, or plan to have, the opportunity to work with person who have disabilities. It will also provide students with a comprehensive background on the physical, psychosocial, vocation and legal issues that face persons with disabilities. Gainful Employment Disclosure Entrepreneurial Journalism The Entrepreneurial Journalism Certificate program prepares students to start their own media-related businesses or bring innovation to legacy media organizations as "intrapreneurs." The program emphasizes knowledge of business fundamentals, marketing, advertising and public relations strategies for new businesses, and creating digital, multimedia content for media products or promotions. Gainful Employment Disclosure . Family Nurse Practitioner The Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP) Certificate program provides a formal program of study for students who already have the Master of Science in Nursing degree and are interested in taking the national certification exam to practice as a Family Nurse Practitioner without requiring them to complete a second masters degree. Gainful Employment Disclosure Geographic Information Systems The GIS Certificate Program is for those with a Bachelor's degree in a relevant field, and with an interest in using GIS as a problem-solving tool. The GIS Certificate gives students an interdisciplinary perspective that allows them to integrate GIS skills into their knowledge acquired in other disciplines; competitive skills and training for jobs in which GIS skills are essential. Gainful Employment Disclosure Healthcare Informatics Leadership The purpose of this interdisciplinary post-baccalaureate certificate is twofold: to provide education training to individuals who are presently working in the area of healthcare information technology; and/or prepare a workforce of individuals to meet the industry's movement towards electronic healthcare documentation. Gainful Employment Disclosure Imaging and Signal Processing The graduate certificate program in Imaging and Signal Processing is intended to provide students and practicing professionals the graduate background material to further their careers in this important area. The subject area is important to many application areas, but biomedical, sensing and signaling for commercial and defense, and information technology applications are of particular interest. The program combines traditional signal processing topics with optics and imaging, as well as computer vision, pattern recognition, and multimedia processing. Computer programming simulation and analysis are emphasized. In addition, the courses in the program are core courses for the Masters degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering, and thus, the certificate is also a portal to that degree. Gainful Employment Disclosure . Information Assurance This certificate program highlights important aspects of information security and assurance technologies. The University of Memphis is designated by DHS and NSA as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance, and its IA courses are accredited by the Committee for National Security Systems for Computer Security standards 4011, 4012, and 4013. These security standards specify the minimum knowledge, skills, and abilities required to fulfill the duties, respectively, of an Information Systems Security Professional, Senior System Manager, and System Administrator. Gainful Employment Disclosure Instructional Design and Technology Computers are essential in today's classrooms. Teachers who know how to operate them are in the highest demand. Graduates completing this certificate learn to make the most effective use of technology in classrooms, K-12, as well as serve as consultants to faculty members and school administrators. Gainful Employment Disclosure Liberal Studies The graduate certificate in Liberal Studies is intended to present graduate background material for those seeking personal enrichment provided by liberal learning and the development of those intellectual skills necessary to lifelong learning--critical reading, scholarly writing, and the art of interpersonal communication. The certificate requires 15 hours of graduate coursework. Gainful Employment Disclosure . Literacy Leadership and Coaching The goals of this certificate program are: 1) to offer literacy teachers education beyond the state certified reading endorsement to prepare them to address the leadership needs across the region and beyond, 2) to provide an accelerated cohort-driven program of study that will enable students to receive a Certificate in Literacy Leadership and Coaching in a timely and meaningful fashion, and 3) to give official recognition of an expertise in literacy leadership to help students qualify for jobs both within and outside the United States. Gainful Employment Disclosure Local Government Management The objectives of the certificate program are: (1) Help working professionals upgrade their knowledge and skills of local government and theory. (2) Empower graduates of the program to succeed as effective and ethical leaders in local government administration. (3) Enhance the analytical and management capabilities of individuals who are responsible for the provision of varied services directly to citizens. Gainful Employment Disclosure Museum Studies Museums are a vibrant sector of our communities, with new and innovative ones opening every year. The Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies is designed to give scholars enrolled in graduate study in art, anthropology, history, public administration, business, and education, or who hold graduate degrees in such disciplines, the skills to enter museum professions. Gainful Employment Disclosure Nursing Administration The Post Master's Certificate in Nursing Administration provides a formal program of study for students who hold a Master of Science in Nursing degree in another specialty. The program provides them with content that provides a strong foundation in complex systems, organizational theory, financial management, and leadership practice. Nursing Education The Nursing Education Certificate program provides a formal program of study for masters prepared nurses interested in obtaining a credential allowing them to teach in Schools of Nursing. The program provides them with the content necessary to teach nursing students in a specific area of nursing. Once students complete the certificate, they are eligible to sit for the national certification exam in this area. This certificate is the optimal way for those already holding a masters degree and desiring this specialization to gain marketability without having to complete an entire second master's degree. Nursing Informatics Nursing informatics integrates information science, computer science and more. A Master's prepared nurse who engages in nursing informatics is an informatics nurse specialist. Nurses with a specialty in informatics identify, collect, process and manage data and information to support nursing practice, administration, education, research, and the expansion of nursing knowledge. The Nursing Informatics Post-Master's Certificate program provides a formal program of study for masters prepared nurses interested in obtaining a certificate in Nursing Informatics. Packaging Engineering The graduate certificate in Packaging Engineering is intended for students who possess a bachelor's degree and are currently working full time or applying to graduate schools, and for graduate students who are specifically interested in learning more about packaging engineering. The Packaging Engineering Certificate Program will provide students with competitive knowledge and skills for jobs in which packaging is practiced, a small class size ensuring personal attention, and interaction with local packaging industry community. Gainful Employment Disclosure. Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership Every employee and volunteer in a nonprofit organization plays a role in meeting the philanthropic goals and charitable purposes of the organization. The Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership is designed to meet the needs of these employees and volunteers looking for advanced study in the theory and practice of nonprofit administration. Ideal for nonprofit professionals, community volunteer leaders and active philanthropists, the Certificate is offered by the Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration. The Certificate requires 15 hours of graduate coursework, all available in both on-campus and online formats. Gainful Employment Disclosure Population Health This graduate Certificate in Population Health provides core competency in biostatistics, epidemiology, environmental health, health policy, and social/behavioral sciences necessary to improve health on a large scale. With the Affordable Care Act, hospitals are incentivized to improve community health so as not to incur repeat hospitalizations, and this certificate is particularly relevant for those in the fields of health care and public health. The Certificate, offered by the School of Public Health, requires 5 courses (15 hours) of graduate coursework, all available in both on-campus and online formats and may be completed in 2 semesters. All 5 courses will apply to the Master of Public Health (MPH) degree should students wish to pursue a graduate degree. Qualitative Studies in Education The Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Studies in Educational Research is intended to prepare students enrolled in any Doctoral program in the School of Education, Health and Human Sciences and throughout the University to design, conduct, publish, and teach rigorous qualitative research. The current academic climate has seen a paradigm shift from a strict focus on objectivist quantitative research to a broader focus on constructionist/subjectivist qualitative research methodologies. Recognizing this shift, our program offers students the appropriate coursework and mentorship to advance their knowledge and application of qualitative research traditions/methodologies such as ethnography, case study, narrative inquiry, post-structural approaches, and creative analytic practices. Gainful Employment Disclosure . Quantitative Studies in Educational Research The certificate program is designed to provide students with formalized training in quantitative methods, including research design, univariate and multivariate statistical analysis, and advanced training in statistical software and programming. Gainful Employment Disclosure . Software Testing Software testing is a critical discipline as organizations increasingly rely on information systems that are becoming increasingly more complex. This certificate prepares students to both manage and participate in testing at all stages of the software development process. The topics and techniques are applicable to testing all types of software. Gainful Employment Disclosure STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) Teacher Leadership The goal of the certificate program in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) Teacher Leadership is to develop the knowledge and skills of secondary mathematics, science, and engineering teachers who are currently teaching in local area schools. The coursework is designed to promote in-depth understanding of current standards and instructional practices with a particular focus on building teacher leaders in STEM education. Gainful Employment Disclosure . Teaching English as a Second Language We live in a global community, where different languages and cultures interact on a daily basis. The TESL Certificate trains students how to teach English to speakers of different languages. And such training also helps students qualify for jobs within and outside the United States. Gainful Employment Disclosure Teaching in Diverse School Populations The purpose of the Graduate Certificate in Teaching in Diverse School Populations is to provide practical and effective professional development for professionals who are presently working with students from diverse backgrounds including school administrators (principals, assistant principals, curriculum facilitators, central office personnel, counselors) and teachers in schools in the state of Tennessee. Individuals completing this post baccalaureate certificate program will be able to provide evidence-based decisions specific to effective teaching and learning environments for students from diverse student populations, as well as design and implement highly specialized evidence based instructional programs for students from diverse populations enrolled in classrooms in the state. Urban Education The 12 credit-hour Graduate Certificate in Urban Education offers an advanced program of study in the expansive and distinct historical and contemporary knowledge, scholarship, and practical issues related to instruction and curriculum leadership in an urban educational context that has a diverse population, is geographically bounded, and is unique in its political, economic and cultural history, relationships, and interactions. The program of study includes a 3 credit-hour workshop that allows the student to explore an issue individually through independent study, online engagement, and engaged scholarship. Gainful Employment Disclosure Women's and Gender Studies Women's roles have changed remarkably over the past 50 years. The Certificate of Women's Studies gives students competitive skills and training for jobs in which the analysis of gender and race is essential, as well as education needed for entrance in selected PhD programs. Gainful Employment Disclosure Degree Programs Graduate Certificate Programs Graduate School Contact Information Accelerated Bachelors/Master's Degrees Nationally Ranked Programs Get More Information Request information about a specific program of interest. Graduate Catalog Learn more about our programs. Apply Now Submit your application today. Support Graduate Education Your gifts make a difference! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/12/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .