#http://blogs.memphis.edu/president/2015/03/
The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog | Archives | 2015 | March Main menu Skip to content Home About the President The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog Search for: Monthly Archives: March 2015 Mar 17 2015 Strategic Renewal as the FedEx Institute of Technology Moves into its Second Decade Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow As the FedEx Institute of Technology moves into its second decade of operations as the front door to the University’s research infrastructure and capabilities, strategic renewal and an expansion of its mission are in the works at the University of Memphis. President M. David Rudd’s new vision for the Institute emphasizes a stronger technology focus, a national profile in terms of being at the forefront of technology developments and partnerships with global technology organizations. It includes serving as the spark to bring the latest technology innovations to the region, stronger community partnerships and an emphasis on improved opportunities for commercialization. He also sees the Institute as a key mechanism to help break down the traditional silos that can stifle interdisciplinary research and faculty collaborations at universities. New key areas of focus will include the expanding biologistics sector and cyber security testing, which has quickly emerged as a national security and business challenge. In both cases, it will be building upon capabilities that the University has put in place over the last decade. The push into biologistics will see the University’s bioengineering, freight transportation, bioinformatics and biomaterials groups coming together to innovate in research and launch the first biologistics graduate program in the country. None of these constituent groups was in place when the FedEx Institute of Technology first opened its doors. In the case of cyber security testing, the University will be building upon two core competencies in which it has national strengths: systems testing and information assurance. Its Systems Testing Excellence Program is the nation’s largest academic research group in software testing, and since 2006 has been helping the likes of FedEx and the U.S. Department of Defense to advance industry best practices through research and training. Similarly, its Center for Information Assurance has been one of the most active research groups at the University and enjoys designations as a National Center for Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education and Research. The FedEx Institute of Technology will also be strengthening its relationships with regional chief information and technology officers. Dr. Rudd issued this call to technology leaders in the community: “If you are playing such a technology leadership role in your organization, please consider this your open invitation to connect with and be a part of the FedEx Institute of Technology as we work together to make Memphis a vibrant technology hub for the future.” The reenergizing and strategic renewal of the Institute will see the University appointing Dr. Jasbir Dhaliwal, who currently oversees its portfolio of 111 graduate programs (that include doctoral, masters and graduate certificate programs), stepping up to lead as the U of M’s new Chief Innovation Officer and Executive Director of the FIT. Consistent with an effort to enhance efficiency, Dr. Dhaliwal has agreed to continue to serve as interim dean of the Graduate School. As the new Chief Innovation Officer, he will report directly to the president, join the President’s Council, and his appointment will see the University’s nearly 4,000 doctoral and masters students becoming closely involved with the research and outreach activities of the Institute as it builds on past successes. Technology transfer efforts, led by Dr. Kevin Boggs, and supporting entrepreneurship, remain priorities which will be now be merged into the larger role of the Institute on campus and in the community. The Crews Center for Entrepreneurship will be seeking distinct new partnerships within the regional innovation ecosystem to boost technology commercialization by students and faculty. Dr. Dhaliwal noted that, “Besides forging a tighter technology relationship with FedEx, the Institute will also function as an additional catalyst to further energize University efforts to grow its funded research base given recent successes such as the NIH-funded Mobile Sensor Data-to-Knowledge Center of Excellence in mobile health. This will involve working closely both with internal research support services professionals led by Dr. Andy Meyers, the University’s interim vice president for Research, and with external partners such as Memphis Bioworks, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital and others.” David Rudd | President Leave a comment | Mar 13 2015 Veteran Student Enrollment Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow Dear Campus Community: As you know, the University of Memphis established the Veterans Resource Center in January 2014.  Since establishing the Center, the U of M has seen a remarkable 60% increase in veteran student enrollment in on-ground and online classes.  You may be interested to know that veterans now represent more than 4% of our total student population. I am pleased to report that the greatest percentage increase in veteran enrollment has occurred at the graduate level, with an increase of 136% from the prior spring semester (53 in 2014, 125 in 2015). Undergraduate veteran enrollment has also made impressive growth, increasing by 51% (249 students) over the prior year.  Also noteworthy is the increase in the percentage of veteran students taking only online classes – a 148% increase.  Consistent with the changes noted above, we have seen an increase of veteran student enrollment of almost 100% at the Lambuth Campus since the spring of 2014. Overall, 78% of veterans who were enrolled in classes during the spring 2014 semester continued to be enrolled into the spring 2015 semester. We can credit the positive perception of our University, along with the diligence and tireless work of the individuals who work with admissions and the Veterans Resource Center, for much of this change.  However, it is the character and personal vision of our veteran students who truly make the difference in their own lives and enrich campus life at the U of M.  We are honored to play a role in helping them achieve their academic dreams. Regards, David Rudd | President Leave a comment | Search for: Recent Posts THEC Funding Recommendations for 2016-2017 Doing is Preserving In Memory of U.S. Senator Fred Thompson Tennessee&#8217;s Next National Research University Performance Funding Score Recent Comments Archives November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 Categories Uncategorized Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS blogs.memphis.edu &copy; The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search