#http://bf.memphis.edu/fecc//about.php
Fogelman Executive Conference Center &amp; Hotel Home | Quick Facts | Conference Benefits | Request for Proposal | Contact Us You do not have the Flash plugin installed, or your browser does not support or have Javascript enabled. Please update your Flash Player. You must have version 6.0 or higher to view the flash content. Get Adobe Player . About Us Floor Plans &amp; Capacity Chart Frequently Asked Questions Holiday Inn Brochure Guest Room Accommodations Meetings &amp; Events Meetings Request for Proposal Floor Plans &amp; Capacity Chart Conference Center Concept &amp; Benefits Catering &amp; Dining Catering Request for Proposal Floor Plans &amp; Capacity Chart Menus Weddings Catering Request for Proposal Floor Plans &amp; Capacity Chart Menus Map &amp; Directions Fogelman Executive Conference Center Holiday Inn Hotel Frequently Asked Questions Conference Center Benefits Map &amp; Driving Directions Contact Us About the Fogelman Executive Conference Center &amp; Hotel The Fogelman Executive Conference Center and Hotel is comprised of two professionally managed, adjacent facilities: The Fogelman Executive Conference Center and The University Holiday Inn. They are seamlessly managed to serve conference and meeting planners, and the planners of high-profile to intimate catering events. Together they offer 133 guest rooms 51 executive rooms at the Conference Center and 82 two-room suites at the Hotel. 18 meeting rooms and a 1,000 seat ballroom are also offered. Fogelman Executive Conference Center The Fogelman Executive Conference Center was built by the University of Memphis to act as a premier meeting venue and think tank site. Designed, built and staffed for conferencing, this facility is known regionally, nationally and internationally as a superior learning and information exchange environment. Here, the staff is highly specialized in event management and service coordination. The Conference Center houses 51 guest rooms, 13 meeting rooms and is adjacent to the Universitys Holiday Inn hotel. Together, they meet the needs of meeting and event planners alike by offering 133 guest rooms, 18 meeting rooms and 1,000 seat ballroom. These facilities embody the Conference Center Concept by offering sound proof meeting rooms, a high ratio of Service Coordinators to meeting planners, and easy to budget and manage Meeting and Event Packages. University Holiday Inn Hotel The Holiday Inn Hotel, adjacent to the Fogelman Executive Conference Center, is the result of a long legacy of hospitality. This 82 room all-suite hotel with a ballroom to seat 1,000 was donated to the University of Memphis in 2002 by Kemmons Wilson, founder of Holiday Inns, Inc. Kemmons Wilsons love for the hotel industry and the city of Memphis inspired him to donate the hotel. The legacy continues as the hotel has been awarded Holiday Inn brand excellence awards six years in a row. The Holiday Inn, along with the Fogelman Executive Conference Center meet the needs of meeting and event planners alike by offering 133 guest rooms, 18 meeting rooms and a 1,000 seat ballroom. Fogelman Executive Conference Center &amp; Hotel Business Office 330 Innovation Drive, Suite 206 Memphis, Tennessee 38152 Ph: 901/678-5410 | Fax: 901/678-5329 Reservations: 901/678-5410 Group Sales: 901/678-2021 Comments &amp; Suggestions | Important Notice | U of M Home Site maintained by Business &amp; Finance Last update: 07/08/2013