#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/records/gpa.php
Grading Scale and GPA - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Home Registrar Students Grading Scale and GPA Grading Scale and GPA In addition to the traditional A-B-C-D-F grades, instructors have the option of assigning several "+" and "-" grades as well. Instructors do not have to use +/- grading, and in some instances it may be their department's policy not to. Refer to your course syllabus. Note: Only grading scales for undergraduate and graduate level courses are discussed here. For Law, refer to the Law School's Academic Regulations . An A+ is not worth any more quality points than an A. What's the advantage, then? If you intend to pursue graduate or professional school, any A+ on your transcript is likely to help your candidacy. UofM does not assign a "D-" grade. When you repeat a course, the first attempt is excluded from your Cumulative GPA, but your second attempt and subsequent attempts are used. For a fuller discussion of repeated courses, see Repeated Course/GPA Scenarios . Important Change: Beginning with the Summer 2015 semester, the University's repeat policy will change with regard to courses that are transferred to UofM: such courses will not be used in calculating GPA. You can earn credit for a passing grade, but you cannot affect your GPA. Read more under Computing GPA (UG Catalog) . The "W" grade is not used in calculating GPA. (See Grades That Are Not Calculated in the GPA below.) UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS GRADING SCALE GRADE QUALITY POINTS A+ 4.00 A 4.00 A- 3.84 B+ 3.33 B 3.00 B- 2.67 C+ 2.33 C 2.00 C- 1.67 D+ 1.33 D 1.00 F 0.00 Calculating Your GPA Your GPA is calculated by dividing the total number of Quality Points you earned by the number of GPA Hours you attempted in courses in which grades of A+ through F are assigned. The first attempts of courses that have been repeated are excluded from the cumulative GPA. Each term, your semester and cumulative GPA will be indicated with your grades. Look at this example of GPA calculation: EXAMPLE: GPA CALCULATION SUBJECT GPA HOURS GRADE EARNED QUALITY POINTS ENGL 1020 3.00 B+ (3.33) 9.99 PHYS 1002 1.00 A- (3.84) 3.84 PHYS 1020 3.00 C+ (2.33) 6.99 CHEM 1010 4.00 B- (2.67) 10.68 HIST 2020 3.00 A (4.00) 12.00 POLS 1101 3.00 F (0.00) 0.00 Add the GPA Hours: 3 + 1 + 3 + 4 + 3 + 3 =17.00 hours Determine the total Quality Points: For each course, multiply the number of GPA Hours for that course times the number of Quality Points indicated on the grading scale above. Example: ENGL 1020 is a 3.00-hour course. Multiply 3.00 hours x 3.33 (the Quality Points for a B+); the product will be 9.99 Quality Points earned for ENGL 1020. Add the Quality Points for all courses: 9.99 + 3.84 + 6.99 + 10.68 + 12.00 + 0 = 43.50 Quality Points. Divide the total Quality Points by the total GPA Hours to determine GPA: 43.50 / 17 = 2.55 (GPA is carried to two decimal places, with no rounding). Repeated Courses and GPA Most courses can be repeated. Learn the rules governing repeated courses and how repeats can affect your GPA by going to Repeated Course/GPA Scenarios . Viewing your GPA You can view your current GPA by calling up your Academic Transcript (Unofficial Transcript). Also, once a semester's grades are official, you can view your latest GPA by clicking on the "Final" link in the lower right-hand corner of the Student Grades channel. Cumulative Statistics Please note that the cumulative statistics you view online are always the current cumulative statistics. Even if you view a past term's grades, the cumulative statistics will be current through the last term you completed. For example, if you view Fall 2007 grades, the cumulative statistics shown with Fall 2007 will include any additional credits and grades earned during later semesters. Lottery Scholarships (Undergraduates Only) The GPA used to determine your continued eligibility for Lottery Scholarships is not the same as your UofM GPA. Your Lottery GPA can be lower because it takes into account all of your attempts at a particular course whereas your UofM GPA counts only the second and successive attempts at a course. Lottery rules allow only one repeated course to be deducted from the Lottery GPA calculation. Also, you need to be aware that Lottery rules stipulate that "W" grades are figured into your Lottery Scholarship eligibility. Any course for which you receive a "W" grade is considered an attempted course for Lottery purposes. "W" grades are not used in calculating your Lottery GPA, but the "W" hours do count toward the maximum hours allowed by a Hope Lottery Scholarship. Grading Scale in Individual Courses The grading scale for each course ( i.e ., the number of points required in that course to earn an A, a B, etc.) is determined by the instructor and should appear in the instructor's course syllabus. gpa Re-calculation by Professional schools/Services Some professional evaluation services ( e.g. , AMCAS, LSDAS) and professional or graduate schools may re-calculate the grade point average according to their grading scale and guidelines. Grades Not Calculated in the GPA AU (Audit) - You audited a course and met the instructor's standards for both attendance and class participation. CR (Credit Received) - You satisfactorily completed a course taken on a credit/no-credit basis. I (Incomplete) - You did not complete a course for a reason that was acceptable to the instructor. Undergraduates must complete all work within 45 days, and Graduates within 90 days, following the end of the semester; otherwise, the grade changes to an "F". IP (In Progress) - The "IP" grade is used in certain research courses to allow you time to complete projects, field work, etc. Most courses graded IP require you to re-enroll in the course the following term. NC (No Credit) - The "NC" grade indicates you did not satisfactorily complete a course in which you had permission to register on a credit/no-credit basis. S (Satisfactory) - The "S" grade is limited to certain types of courses (practicum, research, dissertation, etc.) approved for S/U grading. SA (Satisfactory) - The "SA" indicates the satisfactory completion of a thesis , dissertation , or capstone project . It is assigned only for the final enrollment. The "IP" grade is assigned for all prior enrollments in such courses. T (Continuing) - The "T" grade is used in certain pre-approved courses in which the completion time varies and may exceed the regular enrollment period. If you receive a "T" grade, you must enroll in the course again the following semester in order to receive credit. U (Unsatisfactory) - You did not satisfactorily complete your S/U course (practicum, research, dissertation, etc.) W (Withdrew) - You dropped (withdrew from) the class. A "W" does not affect your GPA. However, "W" grades can affect your continued Lottery Scholarship eligibility since they count toward the number of attempted hours allowed under the scholarship. Please read "Lottery Scholarships (Undergraduates Only)" above. Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .