#http://www.memphis.edu/communication/undergraduate/internships.php
Internships - Communication - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Communication About Graduate Undergraduate People Alumni Events Undergraduate Communication Studies Film &amp; Video Production Communication Minor Current Courses Advising Internships Lambda Pi Eta Honors Program Accelerated BA/MA Home Communication Undergraduate Internships COMM Internships Communication majors are encouraged to enhance their educational experience and to develop their professional skills through internships with government agencies, non-profit organizations, private businesses, film companies, and media firms. Communication majors may earn COMM credit for their internship experience, by registering for COMM 4802. How Do I Find An Internship? COMM Internship Directors Communication Studies: Dr. Craig Stewart Film &amp; Video Production: Prof. Roxie Gee Requirements to register for COMM 4802 Junior or Senior standing (i.e., at least 60 credit hours completed before the beginning of the internship) At least 15 COMM hours completed (or permission of Faculty Director) At least a 3.0 GPA in COMM (or permission of Faculty Director) Film &amp; Video Production internships: completed COMM 3823 and COMM 3824 Online application completed by the last day of classes the semester prior to the beginning of the internship. Letter or email from the internship supervisor confirming that the student has obtained the internship and the general scope of the internship. The period of the internship should correspond with an academic semester (Fall, Spring, or Summer). Each credit hour of COMM 4802 is equivalent to 50 work hours (3 credit hours equals 150 work hours, or 10 hours per week over the course of a 15-week semester). Requirements to complete COMM 4802 Unless otherwise instructed by your faculty director, these forms should be uploaded to eCourseware: Time logs specifying hours worked and tasks completed, signed by both the student and the internship supervisor, submitted both at mid-term and at the end-of-semester. Download pdf form Student self-assessment, signed by both the student and the internship supervisor, submitted at mid-term. Download pdf form Samples of work completed (as appropriate) submitted at mid-term and end of semester. Final student self-evaluation, submitted at end-of-semester. Download pdf form Final supervisor evaluation, submitted at end-of-semester (emailed directly to faculty director). Download pdf form Grade assignment COMM 4802 is graded as S (Satisfactory) or U (Unsatisfactory). The grade will be based on the faculty director's evaluation of the time logs, samples of work performed, the student's self-evaluations, and the supervisor's final evaluation. Undergraduate Communication Studies Film &amp; Video Production Communication Minor Current Courses Advising Internships Lambda Pi Eta Honors Program Accelerated BA/MA Apply to COMM Graduate Programs Programs in Film &amp; Video Production and Communication. Get Started in the COMM Major Declare your major and find your advisor. WUMR The only exclusive jazz outlet in the Memphis metro area. Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/4/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .