#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/services/recall.php
Recall - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Services Circulation &amp; Borrowing Checkout Guidelines Late Fees/Fines Renewals &amp; Returns Search/Recall/Hold Course Reserves Reserves - Students Reserves - Faculty Electronic Reserves Policy Fair Use Checklist Research &amp; Instructional Services Instruction Request Instruction Center Library Liasons Learning Commons Tour Request Technology Assistance Off-Campus Access Technology Resources Laptop Checkout Computer Labs Wireless Access Library Printing/Copying 3D Labs Study Facilities Reserve a Study Room Study Carrel Policy Group Study Rooms Home Libraries Services Recall Circulation Home If you are having trouble locating an item or need something that is already checked out, please review the following options: Search If you cannot locate an item during your visit to McWherter Library, we will search for the item for you for two weeks. We will notify you by email regarding the progress of the search. Recall If an item you need is checked out, the Circulation Desk can place a Recall on it for you. A Recall notifies the current borrower that they have 14 days to return it. If you receive a Recall notice for something checked out to you, you will be given a maximum of 14 days to return it. A $1.00 per day fine will be charged after that time. Hold If an item that you would like to use is checked out, you may place a Hold on it. You will receive an email when the item is returned. You Will Be Notified By Email: When an item is found or returned; the item will be held for you at the Check-Out Desk for 7 days. If the item belongs to one of the branch libraries (Music, Math, or Communication Sciences); it will be held for you at that library. If the item is missing, you should consider ordering the item through Interlibrary Loan . Please contact Delaine Wilson with any questions regarding Search/Recall/Hold. Directions : Use the S/R/H Online Submission Form Or Come to the Check-Out Desk and ask for a Search/Recall/Hold card (see below). Complete the first two sections and return to staff at the Check-Out Desk. To check the status of the item(s) you have requested, please visit My Library Account and search under the "# requests (holds)" link. Services Circulation &amp; Borrowing Checkout Guidelines Late Fees/Fines Renewals &amp; Returns Search/Recall/Hold Course Reserves Reserves - Students Reserves - Faculty Electronic Reserves Policy Fair Use Checklist Research &amp; Instructional Services Instruction Request Instruction Center Library Liasons Learning Commons Tour Request Technology Assistance Off-Campus Access Technology Resources Laptop Checkout Computer Labs Wireless Access Library Printing/Copying 3D Labs Study Facilities Reserve a Study Room Study Carrel Policy Group Study Rooms My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .