#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/expenses/otherfees.php
Other Fees - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Expenses Other Fees Other Fees Fees associated with housing rates, meal rates, admission fees, course fees and the Regent's Online Degree Program courses can be found at Foreign Language Placement Examination: The fee for taking a foreign language placement examination is $160 minimum and an additional $15 for each hour in excess of three (3) per course. These fees are non-refundable and must be paid prior to the examination. Late Registration Fee: A late registration fee of $100, which is not included in the Fee Schedule above, will be assessed to each student who does not complete registration by the semester's first day of classes. Late Payment Fee: A late payment fee of $100 will be assessed to each student who does not satisfy at least the initial installment amount of enrollment fees (50% of fees after all financial aid, scholarships and/or sponsorships have been applied for the fall or spring semester; 100% of fees for summer sessions) by the deadline dates noted at Fee Payment Schedule. The student's registration is subject to cancellation. Payment Of Fees And Debts: Registration (enrollment) fees may be paid by cash, check, money order, Visa/MasterCard/Discover, Financial Aid/Scholarship Award(s), or University TIGER FUND$ account. Fees may be paid as soon as the student registers for courses and are due by the fee payment deadline date noted at Registration Fee Payment Deadline page. The University offers a deferred (installment) payment plan to assist students with the payment of enrollment fees. Please refer to the University's Installment Payment Plan for enrollment fees. It is expected that a check or draft given to the university, for any reason, will be honored by the bank on which it is drawn. A check or draft dishonored by the bank on which it is drawn may be presented a second time at the discretion of the University. A $20 returned item fee will be assessed for any checks/drafts returned. The privilege of making payments to the University by personal check and check cashing privileges will be revoked for any student who has had more than one returned check/draft within a twelve month period. The suspension of this privilege will be for a period of one year from the date the last item is redeemed. A student will not be permitted to satisfy registration fees by check if any previous check in payment of registration fees has been returned. Students on a "NO CHECKS" status must be prepared to satisfy registration fees with cash, cashier's check, or by authorized credit card draft. Eligibility for Deferment of Payment of Tuition and Fees by Certain Eligible Students Receiving U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs or Other Governmentally Funded Educational Assistance Benefits Servicemembers, veterans, and dependents of veterans who are eligible beneficiaries of U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs education benefits or other governmentally funded educational assistance, subject to the conditions and guidelines set forth in Tennessee Code Annotated 49-7-104 as amended, may elect, upon formal application, to defer payment of required tuition and fees until the final day of the term for which the deferment has been requested. Application for the deferment must be made no later than 14 days after the beginning of the term, and the amount of the deferment shall not exceed the total monetary benefits to be received for the term. Students who have been granted deferments are expected to make timely payments on their outstanding tuition and fees balance once education benefits are being delivered, and eligibility for such deferment shall terminate if the student fails to abide by any applicable rule or regulation, or to act in good faith in making timely payments. This notice is published pursuant to Public Chapter 279, Acts of 2003, effective July 1, 2003. Indebtedness To University: Policy of the Tennessee Board of Regents prohibits the enrollment of any person who owes the university any amount of money. All outstanding financial obligations to the university must be satisfied before a student will be allowed to register for courses. Tennessee law prohibits the release of grades, transcripts or diplomas of any person having outstanding financial obligations to the university. Refund Of Registration (Enrollment) Fees: The following refund percentages of enrollment fees (Maintenance, Out-Of-State Tuition, Materials, Applied Music, Nursing Clinical Practicum, Business, Engineering and other course fees, and Student Activity Fees) apply to students who withdraw from the university or who drop to an hourly load below full time: 100% Refund: (1) A full (100%) refund of these fees will be provided until the semester's first day of classes, (2) for courses canceled by the University, and (3) in the case of the death of the student during the semester. 75% Refund: A 75% refund will be provided beginning with the semester's first day of classes and extending for a period of time as noted at . 25% Refund: A 25% refund will be provided beginning at the expiration of the 75% refund period and extending for a period of time as noted at . At the conclusion of the 25% refund period, there will be no refund of these fees. Students who receive Federal Title IV Funds and who withdraw from the University may be eligible for a refund of enrollment fees based on the Federal pro-rate refund calculation. Please refer to the Student Aid section of this Catalog for specific information on pro-rata refunds and the return of Federal Title IV Funds. Course Descriptions Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .