#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/services/awards_navy.php
The Department of Naval Science Awards - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Services to Students The Department of Naval Science Awards The Department of Naval Science Awards Trident Honor Society Award is presented to outstanding Naval midshipmen who have demonstrated the highest caliber of academic excellence. NROTC Awards President’s Award is presented annually by the University president to a graduating senior who demonstrates outstanding attributes of leadership and high moral character. Navy League of Memphis Honor Sword Award is presented to the Naval Graduate selected as the one Midshipman of the graduating class who has consistently demonstrated the highest leadership ability throughout the program. Reserve Officers Association is presented annually to the outstanding freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior who have demonstrated above average scholastic achievements, exceptional mastery of previous Naval Science courses, and superior potential for commissioned service. The Retired Officers Association Award is presented to the outstanding junior who has demonstrated above average scholastic achievement, high moral character and exceptional potential for military leadership. American Defense Preparedness Association Award is presented annually to an outstanding senior whose scholastic achievements are in the top half of the class and in the top one-fifth of NROTC enrollment at the University, who has shown active participation in athletics or campus activities and demonstrated outstanding leadership qualities. Society of the War of 1812 Award is presented annually to an outstanding sophomore whose scholastic average is within the upper quarter of the class, and who demonstrates the ideals of Americanism. Sons of the American Revolution Medal is presented annually to an outstanding freshman who has demonstrated leadership, military bearing and all around excellence in NROTC program studies and activities. National Sojourners Award for Americanism is presented annually to a sophomore or junior who has demonstrated the ideals of Americanism, outstanding scholastic achievements and the potential to be an outstanding leader. American Legion ROTC General Military Excellence Award is presented annually to one freshman, sophomore, and junior, each of whose scholastic achievements are in the top quarter of the class and who have demonstrated outstanding qualities in military leadership, discipline, character and citizenship. American Legion ROTC Scholastic Excellence Award is presented annually to a freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior, each of whose scholastic achievements are in the upper ten percent of the University and who have demonstrated high qualities of military leadership. Military Order of the World Wars Medal is presented to a freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior who each have demonstrated marked improvement in military scholastic achievements. Veterans of Foreign Wars Award is presented annually to a freshman, sophomore, junior and senior who each have demonstrated achievement and concentrated effort in Naval Science and academic subjects and demonstrated capability and diligence in the Naval ROTC program. Daughters of the American Revolution Award is presented annually to a graduating senior whose scholastic achievements are in the top quarter of the class and who has demonstrated qualities of dependability, good character, adherence to military discipline, leadership ability and a fundamental and patriotic understanding of the importance of the ROTC program. Daughters of the American Revolution Certificate is presented annually to a junior who best exemplifies the qualities of dependability, good character, adherence to military discipline, leadership ability and a fundamental and patriotic understanding of the importance of the ROTC program. Daughters of Founders and Patriots of America Award is presented annually to an outstanding sophomore or freshman who demonstrates qualities of dependability, good character, discipline, leadership, and patriotism. Military Order of Foreign Wars Medal is presented annually to an outstanding freshman, sophomore, and junior who each have demonstrated discipline, good character, and leadership ability. American Veterans of World War II, Korea, and Vietnam Medal is presented annually to an outstanding freshman with superior standing in military and academic subjects. Naval Institute Leadership Award is presented annually to a graduating College Program student, Officer Candidate, and Marine Enlisted Commissioning and Education Program student who each have demonstrated outstanding potential for Naval leadership. General Dynamics Award is presented annually to a Midshipman, Officer Candidate, and Marine Enlisted Commissioning and Education Program student who each have demonstrated outstanding leadership ability. Armed Forces Communications and Electronic Association Award is presented to Midshipmen of good moral character, who are in the top fourth of their class, working toward a degree in electronics, communications, electrical engineering, mathematics, computer technology or intelligence systems, and who need financial assistance. Armed Forces Communications and Electronic Association Honor Certificate is presented annually to a junior who has demonstrated high achievement in leadership and in academics and is academically strong in electronics, communications, electrical engineering, mathematics, computer technology or intelligence systems. Naval Submarine League Award is presented annually to the graduating senior who has demonstrated superior leadership ability and academic aptitude for entry into the Submarine Warfare Community. Marine Corps Association Award is presented annually to the graduating Marine-option Midshipman or Marine who best exemplifies the leadership qualities and professionalism of a Marine officer. Mariner of the Year is presented annually by the Naval Science Department to a member of the Mariners who has given most in service to the department, University, and community. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .