#http://www.memphis.edu/benefits/info/scholarship.php
Staff Scholarship &amp; PC-191 - University Benefits Administration - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Benefits Administration Staff Directory Benefits Information Related Resources &amp; Links Human Resources Benefits Information Prospective Employees New Faculty New Staff Current Employees Departing Employees Retiring Employees Home University Benefits Administration Benefits Information Staff Scholarship &amp; PC-191 Staff Scholarship &amp; PC-191 Staff Scholarship Eligibility Regular full-time and part-time staff employees employed by the University a minimum of six months as of the first day of class Faculty may audit courses under this program Retirees with 10 or more years of service Program Benefits* Six hours per term for full-time employees; three hours for part-time employees Class Attendance Course should be taken outside normal work schedule; however, with departmental approval, may adjust work schedule for one class during regular work hours Penalties If employee fails to successfully complete a course or courses paid by this program, to regain eligibility, employee must pay for and successfully complete the same number hours dropped, withdrawn, or failed Participating Institutions The University of Memphis; other TN Board of Regents institutions, and University of Tennessee schools Notes Participant must meet requirements for admission and are subject to institutional and academic regulations Applications should be submitted at least two weeks prior to fee payment deadline for the term In accordance with Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 127, up to $5,250 of graduate course tuition per calendar year paid and/or waived under the educational assistance programs is eligible for exclusion from the employee's gross annual income. However, any amount paid/waived under the educational assistance programs that exceeds $5,250 in a calendar year is subject to taxes and will be included as taxable income in Box 1 on your W-2. The University of Memphis will withhold FICA and Med-FICA (Social Security) tax only from these payments. The employee will be responsible for any federal withholding regarding this additional income. PC-191 Eligibility Regular full-time employees including faculty The status of an employee on the published first day of classes for each term determines eligibility for participation in this program. Any change in status after the first day of classes shall not affect eligibility for that term of the amount of assistance received. Program Benefits* One course per term (fall, spring, and summer) Space available basis only Class Attendance Course should be taken outside normal work schedule; however, with departmental approval, may adjust work schedule for one class during regular work hours Penalties None Participating Institutions The University of Memphis; other TN Board of Regents institutions, and University of Tennessee schools Notes Participant must meet requirements for admission and are subject to institutional and academic regulations Applications should be submitted at least two weeks prior to fee payment deadline for the term Subject to a designated registration date assigned by the Bursar's Office . In accordance with Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 127, up to $5,250 of graduate course tuition per calendar year paid and/or waived under the educational assistance programs is eligible for exclusion from the employee's gross annual income. However, any amount paid/waived under the educational assistance programs that exceeds $5,250 in a calendar year is subject to taxes and will be included as taxable income in Box 1 on your W-2. The University of Memphis will withhold FICA and Med-FICA (Social Security) tax only from these payments. The employee will be responsible for any federal withholding regarding this additional income. *Student activity fees are waived; therefore, no student privileges are extended. Special course fees such as, Art, Business, and Engineering fees are the student's responsibility. RODP course fees are covered under the PC-191. Staff Scholarship Request Form PC-191 Application for Fee Waiver Application Process Benefits Information Prospective Employees New Faculty New Staff Current Employees Departing Employees Retiring Employees Tiger Perks Exclusive discounts offered to UofM employees Affordable Care Act Important information related to the Affordable Care Act Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .