#http://www.memphis.edu/umtech/student_sucess/
Student Success - umTech - Information Technology Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. umTech - Information Technology Services Service Support Teaching Smart Tech Students Solutions Student Success Academic Integrity eCourseware Clickers Media Services Qualtrics Hardware/Software Web Conferencing Additional Services Home umTech - Information Technology Services Student Success Helping students find their technology edge. Technology is moving at a crazy pace. We are here to help our students keep up and use technology to their advantage. You've come to the University to launch the career of your dreams, and technology will have a big part in achieving those goals. Whatever questions you might have about the various technologies being used on campus, just turn to the Service Desk. Call, come by or chat for help. You may also reference AskTom for self-help articles. What technology is my instructor using or asking me to use? eCourseware is our current learning management system. This technology is commonly used to store information, documents, and communication for your registered course(s). Look here to find your course syllabus, to email the instructor, submit an assignment and much more. Podcast Central, MediaSite, and Ensemble are all media services used for posting digital media content for instructional purposes. Your instructor may direct you to one of these to access MP3, MP4, flash content, videos, licensed movies, etc. Information on how to access and/or use these services may be found in your course syllabus. The Service Desk and AskTom can also help with questions. Do you need to create a survey as an assignment for one of your courses? We use Qualtrics to create, distribute and analyze surveys. Information on how to access and use this software can be found on the find solution page. BlueJeans and umMeet (Adobe Connect) are used for web conferencing. If you're a member of a blended, hybrid, or fully online course, you may be directed to use one of these services for virtual meetings or collaborations. More information on these services can be found on the umMedia Services page. Blogging anyone? The UofM provides a blog development solution through EduBlogs. There's a finesse to effective blogging. Check out the helpful tips on getting started and maintaining your blog. Cheating hurts everyone. Technology can help your instructor with discernment and concerns of academic integrity , through the use of products like Turnitin or Respondus LockDown Browser . Will I have to purchase any the software listed above while I'm in school? No. The software titles listed and referenced above are fully supported by the University. This means we help you learn how to use it, and we also provide access to it while you're a currently enrolled student with the UofM. What hardware or software might my instructor ask me to use or buy? Trying to determine if your current device or software will work, or should you buy new, can be a tough task. Here are a few helpful tips to guide you in making your choice: Most modern (&lt;7 years old) computers, laptops, tablets, or mobile devices will perform sufficiently on our network. Older devices should be well maintained and free from viruses, spyware, adware, malware and extra toolbars or search engines. Is a clicker required for your course? Clickers are audience response tools used during your class. Instructors may use it to take attendance, capture in-class survey responses and more. Clickers should be purchased at the on-campus bookstore. Depending on your program of study, you may be required to purchase specific hardware and/or software to successfully complete course/program requirements. These are normally communicated through your instructor. You can find more information about recommendations on the Recommended Hardware/Software for Students page. Are there places on (or off) campus I can use to access hardware and software? Yes. The University provides access to over 1,300 computers to its students, using TAF funded, general purpose labs. These labs can be found in several buildings at each UofM campus and center. In addition, we provide access to (25) software packages that can be accessed using our umWare software service. To use this service, you need a computer, Internet access and an active account. How can I stay "plugged in" to new and trending technologies? Getting connected with us can help you stay informed about software updates and new and trending technologies. We have several ways to stay connected: Technology Coaches Facebook (Service Desk page) Twitter (SD feed) Browsing websites like this and the Service Desk Student Success Academic Integrity eCourseware Clickers Media Services Qualtrics Hardware/Software Web Conferencing Additional Services Let Us Help! Call 901.678.8888. Available Now. Chat Live Monday - Friday 8:00 am - 7:00 pm CDT Ask Tom Search this collection of questions and answers to find solutions to a variety of technical problems. New Service Desk System Learn more about the new service support system. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .