#http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/scholshp.php
Scholarships - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Home Music Future Students Scholarships Important Scholarship Info The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music awards numerous talent-based performance scholarships each year to incoming freshmen. All music scholarship awards are based on a combination of talent level (as identified by audition), ensemble or studio needs, and available funds. Early application is strongly encouraged. School of Music scholarships are renewable for up to four years and require full-time enrollment during fall and spring semesters. For priority consideration applicants seeking University of Memphis Academic Scholarships should be accepted by the University of Memphis by December 1. Students applying for School of Music scholarships are encouraged to apply to the School of Music by December 1, audition for the School of Music by the end of February, and be accepted by the University of Memphis before their audition day. Acceptance into the School of Music is contingent on acceptance by the University. The Music Performance Scholarship is a highly competitive, renewable scholarship awarded to a limited number of students each year that exhibit excellent performance ability and potential as identified through audition. The award amount is determined by a combination of the student's audition results, ensemble needs, and funding availability. The maximum award amount is based on actual tuition and fees, charges but may be used for payment of any fees associated with the cost of attendance. The award will be deposited into the student's account at the beginning of each semester. HOPE scholarship funds, if awarded to the student, will be applied to the balance of tuition and any remaining amount may be used for payment of other fees associated with the cost of attendance. On-campus housing is encouraged to provide each scholarship student with social and scholarly activity opportunities that promote academic success. There are a limited number of Mighty Sound of the South Performance/Out-of-State Tuition Scholarships available for incoming non-music major freshmen. These scholarships are awarded to students who exhibit high academic and artistic achievement who fulfill ensemble needs. Applicants must be exemplary musicians, colorguard members, or baton twirlers who have a 3.25 Cumulative GPA and a 24 ACT (1110SAT) to be considered for audition. Please contact the Band Office at 901.678.2263 or mightysound@memphis.edu for further information. Mighty Sound of the South Scholarships are awarded to students for performance as colorguard members, Tigerette members, marching band musicians, and pep band musicians. Students are awarded varying amounts depending on the type of assignment. Awards are for one semester and are renewable based on the needs of the band program. The award will be deposited into the student's account at the beginning of the semester. Please contact the Band Office at 901.678.2263 or mightysound@memphis.edu for further information. Out-of-State Fees Award for Outstanding Performance - For a limited number of students who audition and who are not residents of the State of Tennessee, the School of Music may award the out-of-state portion of tuition. To see tuition fee charts, visit memphis.edu/bursar/fees/ . Scholarship Information School of Music talent-based performance scholarships are awarded to music majors, music minors, and a very limited number of non-majors who apply for Lessons Only (applied lessons) and scholarship. Students awarded School of Music scholarships take applied lessons and participate in two ensembles as selected by faculty. Scholarship awards are mailed beginning in mid March. Renewal of School of Music scholarships is based on a number of criteria including fulfilling assigned ensemble requirements, maintaining progress toward a degree, maintaining a GPA of 2.5 and a "B" in applied lessons and ensembles. All awards are tentative subject to legislative appropriation and receipt of funds by the University of Memphis and final verification of academic records and acceptance to the University of Memphis. Other University Scholarship and Financial Support Opportunities The University of Memphis awards many academic scholarships each year to entering freshmen. These are generally based on a combination of ACT/SAT scores and high school grade point averages. To receive high priority consideration for academic scholarships, applicants must be accepted by the University admissions office by December 1. See the University of Memphis Scholarships website, memphis.edu/scholarships/ , for a detailed "List of Scholarships." The College of Communications and Fine Arts administer the Elizabeth and Harold Robinson Scholars and Fellows awards. Out-of-state students should review benefits and eligibility of the Non-Resident Honors Student Award which requires application and acceptance. There are a limited number of Non-Resident Honors Student Awards. Apply early. See Tennessee residents are encouraged to read about the Tennessee Education Lottery Scholarship Program (HOPE Scholarships). Go to memphis. . Students who reside in Tate, Marshall, DeSoto, Tunica, and Crittenden counties may be eligible for in-state tuition. To read about the Border County Tuition waiver, see memphis.edu/admissions/freshmen/border.php . Out-of-state students, particularly those interested in concentrations in Jazz, Recording Technology or Music Business, should review Academic Common Market opportunities at: . The University of Memphis provides numerous sources of Financial Aid. Review them at memphis.edu/financialaid . Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .