#http://www.memphis.edu/law/faculty-staff/zawisza.php
Christina Zawisza - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Home School of Law Faculty Christina Zawisza Christina A. Zawisza Professor of Clinical Law and Director, Child and Family Litigation Clinic Phone (901) 678-5201 Email czawisza@memphis.edu Fax Office Law School, Legal Clinic Offices Office Hours About Professor Zawisza Chris Zawisza is a nationally recognized expert and practitioner in the field of children's law. She was a founder and director of Children First (now Florida's Children First), an innovative statewide law reform project to enhance children's legal rights by taking into consideration their medical, educational and social needs. She has represented children at all levels of the court system from administrative levels to the United States Supreme Court and has practiced extensively before the Florida Legislature on behalf of children and families. Among her achievements are: litigation and settlement of a class action lawsuit, M.E.v. Bush, on behalf of 45,000 dependent and delinquent children in Florida to obtain necessary mental health treatment; representation of foster children in challenging the gay adoption ban in Florida in Lofton v. Florida Department of Children and Families, 157 F.Supp. 2d 1372 (S.D. Fla. 2001), 358 F.3d 804 (11th Cir. 2004), 543 U. S. 1081 (cert. denied 2005); drafting and advocacy to create a funded relative caregiver program in Florida; drafting of the Florida constitutional amendment providing universal pre-kindergarten education to four year olds; and representation of Amici Curiae before the Tennessee Supreme Court in In re A. M. H., 215 S.W. 3d 793 (Tenn. 2007), which resulted in a unanimous decision clarifying termination of parental rights requirements and the concept of substantial harm. Most recently, Professor Zawisza had developed and delivered a Juvenile Court Practice Series on behalf of the Tennessee Administrative Office of the Courts. Titles in this PowerPoint series include: Trial Skills for Children in the Courtroom; Expert Witnesses in Juvenile Court; Ethics Refresher for Juvenile Court Practice; and Cross- Cultural Competency. As the faculty advisor for the Public Action Law Society, Professor Zawisza has mentored students in the Alternative Spring Break (ASB) Project, which in 2010 sent 15 law students to Miami to assist Haitians caught in Miami after a hurricane to achieve temporary protected status. In 2011, 30 law students from around the country will participate in ASB at Memphis Law and will work on pro se divorce, advanced directives, and non-profit projects. Education B.A., magna cum laude, State University of New York at Albany, M. A. in Public Policy, the University of Wisconsin, J.D., the University of Virginia Admitted Tennessee, New York and Florida Experience Professor of Clinical Law and Director, Child and Family Litigation Clinic, University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, 2009 - present. Associate Professor of Clinical Law and Director, Child and Family Litigation Clinic, University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, 2004 to 2009. Over 30 years of legal practice in the area of juvenile and family law in Florida and Tennessee, 19 years as a Legal Services attorney; Director, Children First and Clinic Instructor, Nova Southeastern University Shepard Broad Law Center, 1996 -2002. Teaching Interests Child Advocacy, Clinical Legal Education, Juvenile Law, Disability Law and Practice Publications Professor Zawisza has presented poster sessions at AALS clinical conferences and has organized and moderated panel discussions at AALS Global Alliance for Justice Education Conferences in Poland and in Argentina. She writes in the area of child welfare law and practice and clinical teaching methodologies; her most recent publication is "Storied Anna Mae He Decision Clarifies Law But Leaves Unanswered Questions," 38 U. Mem. L. Rev. 637 (2008), which tracks the seven year custody battle between Chinese birth parents and American foster parents. She currently serves on the Tennessee Supreme Court Dependency Court Improvement Task Force and the Tennessee Children's Justice Task Force. Professor Zawisza has received numerous honors and awards, including the American Bar Association Young Lawyers National Child Advocacy Award. She has been interviewed and quoted extensively on children's legal issues in print and broadcast media, including The New York Times, Brian Williams, then of MSNBC, and the Associated Press. Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .