#http://www.memphis.edu/gsa/about/constitution.php
Graduate Student Association Constitution - GSA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Student Association About Members Committees Calendar Contact Us Graduate School About Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities Graduate Student Association Constitution Home GSA About Graduate Student Association Constitution Constitution of the Graduate Student Association of The University of Memphis Preamble This Constitution of the Graduate Student Association of the University of Memphis sets forth the laws which will serve as the guiding principles of the Association. It provides a formal channel for communication among Graduate Students, Graduate Faculty, and University Administration. As the Graduate School of the University of Memphis continues to grow in size, the Students, Faculty, and Administration will realize a concomitant increase in problems and issues. The interests and concerns, specific to Graduate Students, will often diverge from those characteristic of Undergraduate Students and those of the Undergraduate Student Government Association. The Graduate Student Association, as developed in this Constitution, will deal with such issues which are of primary concern to the Graduate School, its Students, Faculty, and Administration. Article I: Definitions Section 1: Graduate Student: A graduate student is defined as anyone registered as a degree seeking Graduate Student at the University of Memphis. The term student does not impinge upon the right of students to act as citizens of the greater community but recognizes that when they do so, they act exclusively as citizens and not as officially recognized or sanctioned students of the Graduate Student Association of the University of Memphis. Section 2: Member: Membership in the Graduate Student Association is granted to any Graduate Student as defined under Article I, Section 1. Section 3: Department: A department is defined as a group of Graduate Faculty and Students in a field of study organized under a Department Chairperson and recognized by the Graduate School as having a graduate program. Section 4: College or School: An independent College or School of the University of Memphis is determined by the University Council of Graduate Studies and Research. There are currently nine of these schools. Article II: Purposes Section 1: To provide the opportunity for communication, cooperation, and the exchange of ideas among Graduate Students, Faculty, and the Administration of the Graduate School and the University of Memphis in order to enhance intellectual development through faculty/student interaction. Section 2: To provide services to the Graduate Student Body across all colleges and departments of the University of Memphis. Section 3: To serve as a Central Body to direct Graduate Student recommendations and/or grievances to the appropriate body, office, or individual of the University of Memphis. Section 4: To strive to improve the quality of Graduate and Undergraduate education at the University of Memphis. Section 5: To encourage and conduct such social activities as are desired by the Graduate Students of the University of Memphis. Article III: The Legislature Section 1: The Graduate Student Assembly: The General Assembly is composed of one voting member from each independent college/school of the University of Memphis as defined under Article 1, Sections 3 and 4. Each Graduate Student Representative shall be elected at the first GSA meeting of each academic year. The Graduate Student Advisor (in the absence of an election) of each college/school has the right to nominate or affirm a Graduate Student Representative from his/her college/school. Each Graduate Student Representative shall be enrolled as a Graduate Student, as defined under Article I, section 1, and be in good standing. The term of office of a Graduate Student Representative will be from the first GSA meeting of the academic year through April 30 of the following year. Graduate Student Representatives may be appointed at any time within this period to serve out the rest of the term. Graduate Student Representatives may be elected or affirmed by the Graduate Student Association or by the College/School Graduate Director to more than one term. Colleges/Schools not providing representation in no way affect the numerical percentages necessary to conduct the business of the Graduate Student General Assembly. The Graduate Student Assembly will be presided over by the Vice-President of the Graduate Student Association. The Graduate Student Assembly will appoint a Recording Secretary who will take the minutes of each meeting and forward those minutes to the Secretary of the Graduate Student Association for publication. The meetings of the Graduate Student Assembly will be open to the members of the Academic Community, but only Representatives shall vote on issues before the General Assembly. The Graduate Student Assembly shall have the power to replace any officers within the Graduate Student Association Executive Branch should those offices become vacant during the academic year. The proposed nature and frequency of the meetings and activities of the Graduate Student Assembly will be according to "Roberts Rules of Order-New Revised," and they are to be held once a month, beginning in September to April of each academic year. A quorum of one-fourth of the members of the Graduate Student General Assembly will be required to conduct business. If a Representative of the Graduate Student General Assembly cannot be present at a meeting of the Assembly then the Representative may issue a written proxy to another member of the Assembly. Other than stipulated by this document, the Graduate Student General Assembly shall determine and record the rules governing its procedures. Such procedures are subject to the approval of the Parliamentarian of the Graduate Student Association. Two Faculty advisors will be appointed by the Graduate School for one year terms but shall not be voting members of the Graduate Student General Assembly. The Dean of the Graduate School shall serve as an ex-officio member of the Graduate Student General Assembly. Article IV: The Executive Branch Section 1: The President of the Graduate Student Association: The President of the Association will agree to hold a full time Graduate Assistantship in the Graduate School from May 1 of the appointed/elected year to April 30 of the following academic year. The President shall appoint all Executive Committees and their respective chairpersons with the approval of the Executive Cabinet as defined under Article IV Section 7. The President shall act as presiding officer over the Graduate Student Orientation and Graduate Research Forum committees. The President shall serve as a voting member of the Graduate Travel committees. The President shall call for special elections as the need arises for the Graduate General Assembly. The President will also retain the right, with majority vote of the Graduate Student Assembly to accept nominations by the College Directors. The President will cast no vote except in cases of a tie. The President will chair all meetings of the Executive Cabinet of the Graduate Student Association. The President will keep and maintain the records of the Graduate Student Association, to be stored in the Graduate School. The President will also be responsible for all official Graduate Student Association Correspondence. The President will serve as the Webmaster of the Graduate Student Association. The President may serve more than one term in office. Section 2: The Vice-President of the Graduate Student Association: The Vice-President shall preside over the Graduate Student General Assembly but shall have no vote in that body except in cases of a tie.The Vice-President shall coordinate all academic and social activities and programs. The Vice-President may serve more than one term of office. Section 3: The Secretary of the Graduate Student Association: The Secretary will keep and publish (by forwarding to the webmaster) the minutes of each meeting of the Graduate Student Association. The Secretary of the Association shall be a voting member of the Graduate Student Assembly. The Secretary will keep and maintain the records of the Graduate Student Association, to be stored in the Graduate School under the supervision of the President. The Secretary will keep a file of all documentation necessary for the operation of the Graduate Student Senate, to be stored in the Graduate School under the supervision of the President. The Secretary may serve more than one term of office. Section 4: The Treasurer of the Graduate Student Association: The Treasurer shall manage and be accountable for Graduate Student Association funds. The Treasurer of the Association shall be a voting member of the Graduate Student Assembly. The Treasurer will be a permanent member of the Graduate Travel Committee. The Treasurer shall be accountable for the financial plans of the Graduate Student Association, including any proposed fees, dues, and assessments, if they are applicable to the Graduate Student Association. In the event of dissolution, after all debts are satisfied, the Treasurer shall be responsible for ensuring that any and all remaining funds shall and have been transferred to the Graduate School. The Treasurer may serve more than one term of office. Section 5: The Parliamentarian of the Graduate Student Association: The Parliamentarian will maintain proper parliamentary procedures as defined by "Roberts Rules of Order-New Revised." The Parliamentarian of the Association shall be a voting member of the Graduate Student Assembly. The Parliamentarian is the court of last resort in parliamentarian disputes in the Graduate General Assembly. The Parliamentarian may serve more than one term of office. Section 6: The Executive Cabinet: The President of the Graduate Student Association, the Vice- President of the Graduate Student Association, the Secretary of the Graduate Student Association, the Treasurer of the Graduate Student Association, and the Parliamentarian of the Graduate Student Association shall make up the Graduate Student Association Executive Cabinet. The Chairs of the Executive Committees shall be ex-officio members of the Executive Cabinet. Special meetings of the Executive Cabinet will be called by the President of the Graduate Student Association as needed or at the request of the Executive Cabinet. Section 7: Executive Committees: The Graduate Student Association Committee composition shall not be restricted to the elected members of the Graduate Student General Assembly but may include appointed individuals from the Graduate Student Body as defined under Article I. The Graduate Travel Committee will be chaired by the SGA Finance Chairman under the special conditions laid out by the Senate Bill 51, approved and signed by the SGA and the GSA in the 2005/2006 academic year. The President of the GSA is mandated to be a member of the Committee along with two other appointed members of the GSA. One additional SGA member is allowed to sit on the Committee. The Graduate Student Orientation Committee shall be chaired by the President of the Graduate Student Association. The Graduate Research Forum Committee shall be chaired by the President of the Graduate Student Association. Other committees shall be formed and dissolved as needed by the President of the Graduate Student Association. The President of the Graduate Student Association or his/her appointed representative shall be ex-officio members of all executive committees. Section 8: Elections: The Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer and Parliamentarian will be (if possible) elected by the entire Graduate Student Body at the first Graduate Student Association meeting of the academic year, to take office immediately, and to end on April 30 of that academic year. For whatever reason if election is not possible, then the Graduate Student Assembly may hold elections within that body to fill such positions/offices as are vacant. Should any office or position of the Graduate Student General Assembly, a special election will be held to fill the vacancy. Such election shall be called by the President of the Graduate Student Association or the Vice-President acting in that capacity. Such elections will be overseen by the appropriate officials of the departments/schools or colleges/schools as needed. If elections are not held in a timely manner, the Student Representatives shall have the appointment of the Graduate Advisor/Director of the respective department/school or college/school. The elected member shall be enrolled as a Graduate Student as defined under Article I, Section 1, and be in good standing. Article VI: Amendment Process Section 1: Amendments to this Constitution may be initiated by a one-third vote of the Graduate Student General Assembly. Amendments to this Constitution may be initiated by a petition signed by fifty (50) Graduate Students and presented to either one of the two bodies of the Graduate Student Association: the Graduate Student Association Executive Cabinet or the Graduate Student General Assembly. Section 2: Amendments to this Constitution must be ratified by a two-thirds vote of the Graduate Student Assembly or Executive Cabinet. Section 3: The right to amend this Constitution by administrative action is retained by the Graduate School of the University of Memphis and is vested in the Dean of the Graduate School. About the GSA The University of Memphis Graduate Student Association: Provides opportunity for discussion and recommendations on matters of concern to graduate students Represents the interests of all graduate students campus-wide Is the official liaison for graduate students to communicate as a group with University and Graduate School administrators Advocates for support of graduate student research and teaching experience Who are the members of the Graduate Student Association? All enrolled graduate students are automatically members of the GSA, are encouraged to participate in GSA discussions and activities, and may serve on GSA committees and working groups. How is the Graduate Student Leadership Council Chosen? Every fall, and as needed throughout the academic year, a student from each department is elected or chosen to represent that department as a voting member of the GSA Assembly. If you are interested in serving as a representative please contact the GSA President (901.678.1408). About Graduate Student Rights and Responsibilities Graduate Student Association Constitution Travel Funding Request funds for travel with the Travel Fund application. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .