#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/provost/professorships/
Professorships - Academic Affairs - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Academic Affairs About Provost Resources Academic Affairs Units Provost CHC Partnership Faculty Spotlight Chairs of Excellence University Professorships Awards Program About Awards Programs Academic Affairs Nominations Academic Affairs Winners Faculty Awards Faculty Award Winners Home Academic Affairs Provost University Professorships Purpose The University of Memphis employs a number of faculty members who have made significant contributions to its educational, research, outreach, and service missions and bring national and international recognition to the University and to our community. Their contributions are recognized in a number of university-level awards programs, including the Eminent Faculty Award, the Distinguished Research Award, the Outstanding Teaching Award, and other comparable types of recognition. These programs, however, do not reach as many of the University's eligible faculty as we would like. We have consequently developed a University Professorships program that augments out current awards program and will help us retain our best faculty. This program presently includes three Professorships. Click on the links below to see additional information on a specific professorship: The Faudree University Professorships -- To donate, click here . The Atkins University Professorships -- To donate, click here . The First Tennessee University Professorships -- To donate, click here . Previous Award Recipients Process Faculty members, department chairs, or other college administrators would nominated eligible recipients. The Provost, with input from an advisory faculty group, would select the recipient(s) of a University Professorship subject to the approval of the President of the University. Awardees would be allowed to use their allocations for salaries, travel, supplies, or other expenses in any proportion they choose, as long as the total sum does not exceed the annual award amount. The actual amount of the salary supplement and miscellaneous awards may vary slightly from year-to-year due to investment income results, but would usually be approximately $5,000 per year for full professors and $2,500 per year for associate professors. Continued salary increases would be computed on the awardee's base salary, less the value of the supplemental income related to the University Professorship. Upon relinquishing the University Professorship, the faculty member's salary would revert to his/her base, including any routine salary increases provided during the period of the award, but less the supplemental increase associated with the University Professorship. Faudree University Professorships In consideration of Mr. and Mrs. Jabie Hardin's desire to demonstrate their regard and support for Dr. Ralph Faudree, former Provost of the University of Memphis, this program was established. Full and associate tenured professors with ten years of service at the University of Memphis are eligible for the program. Associate professors with five years of service at the University are eligible for the program. Awardees would hold University Professorships for a maximum of three years. Selection will be based upon the quality of the faculty member's teaching, research, and service/outreach, with a priority given to faculty contributing in all three areas. To donate to the Faudree University Professorship, please click here . Atkins University Professorships In consideration of Mr. Olin Atkins's desire to support the Olin Atkins University Professorships program, a faculty rewards program designed to help the University retain its best and brightest faculty and to make an investment in the University's people. Full and associate tenured professors with ten years of service at the University of Memphis are eligible for the program. Awardees would hold University Professorships for a maximum of three years and would be ineligible for re-consideration for a minimum of three years following expiration of initial awards. Selection will be based upon the quality of the faculty member's teaching, research, and service, with a special emphasis on teaching skill. To donate to the Atkins University Professorship, please click here . First Tennessee University Professorships In consideration of the desire of the First Tennessee Foundation to support a University professorships program, this program was established to promote the University's goals of academic quality, community connections, and expanded research capabilities by recognizing individual faculty members with financial rewards designed to help the University recruit and retain outstanding professors. Full and associate tenured professors with ten years of service at the University of Memphis are eligible for the program. Awardees would hold University Professorships for a maximum of three years and would be ineligible for re-consideration for a minimum of three years following expiration of initial awards. Selection for professorship will recognize outstanding individual faculty contributions in teaching, scholarship, service, and community outreach. To donate to the First Tennessee University Professorship, please click here . PREVIOUS AWARD RECIPIENTS 2013 This FY we were unable to offer any new Faudree, Atkins, or First Tennessee professorships. 2012 First Tennessee: Robert Kozma, Mathematical Sciences; Carol Crown, Art; Brian Janz, Management Information Systems Faudree: Ralph Faudree, Provost 2011 First Tennessee: Marla Stafford, Marketing &amp; Supply Management Faudree: Gisele Goldstein, Mathematics; Santosh Kumar, Computer Science 2010 Faudree: Rick Bloomer, Health and Sport Sciences; Jonathan Judaken, History; Ken Ward, Public Health Atkins: David Appleby, Communication 2009 First Tennessee: Deborah Lowther, ICL; Cary Holladay, English Faudree: Pu-Qi Jiang, Music 2008 First Tennessee: David Allen, Management; Emin Babakus, Marketing Supply Management; Eugene Buder, AUDSLP; Theodore Burkey, Chemistry; Roy Van Arsdale, Earth Sciences Faudree: Joan Schmelz, Physics 2007 First Tennessee: Albert Okunade, Economics Faudree: Stanley Hyland, School of Urban Affairs &amp; Public Policy; Anna Kaminska, Mathematics; Vivian Morris, Education Atkins: Abby Parrill-Baker, Chemistry 2006 First Tennessee: David Evans, School of Music; Allison Graham, Communication Faudree: Monika Nenon, Foreign Languages 2005 First Tennessee: Gloria Baxter, Theatre &amp; Dance; Carl Halford, Electrical Engineering Faudree: Don Franceschetti, Physics 2004 Faudree: Leonard Lawlor, Philosophy: Steven J. Ross, Communication; Steven M. Ross, Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research Atkins: Janann Sherman, History Provost CHC Partnership Faculty Spotlight Chairs of Excellence University Professorships Awards Program About Awards Programs Academic Affairs Nominations Academic Affairs Winners Faculty Awards Faculty Award Winners Provost's Blog Check out some of the latest Academic Affairs news Academic Affairs Award Nominations Help us recognize the hard work and dedication of the University's staff Faudree Professorship Help the University retain its best and brightest faculty by donating today Critical Conversations Join the conversation today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/20/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .