#http://www.memphis.edu/cfia/news_and_events.php
News and Events - Center for Information Assurance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Center for Information Assurance About Cyber Security Scholarships Projects Research Courses People Home Center for Information Assurance News and Events News and Events CYBER SECURITY SUMMIT 2015 Summary Posted on 2015-17-11 The University of Memphis, FedEx Institute of Technology, hosted the Mid-South Cyber Security Conference on Friday, October 16, 2015. Details about the event are in the following link: Cyber Security Summit 2015 Event Student Team Wins 2nd Place at Cyber Defense Competition Posted on 2015-11-11 A team of four Computer Science students recently won second place in the prestigious CANSec Cyber Defense Competition , held in Little Rock on Oct. 24. The competition is held annually as a part of the CANSec workshop (formerly KanSec), which has brought together researchers and practitioners in networking and security related fields since Spring 2012. The students competed against Cyber Security teams from several other universities across the U.S. before winning second place in the day-long competition. The goal of the competition was to provide students with a platform to apply theoretical knowledge into practice, and to obtain hands-on cyber security experience. During the competition, the teams were asked to oversee a small corporate network, to manage all critical services, and to defend against external attacks. The U of M winning team included two graduate students (Kul Subedi, Sujit Shrestha) and two undergraduates (Robert Edstrom, Nick Gordon), all of whom are involved with the Center for Information Assurance . "It was a valuable experience, and one I'm very glad to have been a part of," said Robert Edstrom. "I think we all learned a great deal from working as a team." The team also participated and performed well in the CyberSEED national cyber security competition, held at UConn on Oct. 29-30. Cyber Security Summit The University of Memphis Center for Information Assurance would like to cordially invite you to The Cyber Security Summit. This year's summit is being held on October 16, 2015 at The University of Memphis FedEx Institute of Technology. Topics such as health information security, cloud security, cyber crime, and many more will be discussed by keynote speakers. Information Assurance and Cyber Security experts will be onsite for presentations and networking to address current issues of cyber security. To learn more about the annual Mid-South Cyber Security Summit, click the following link: UofM Redesignated as National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Research Contact: Gabrielle Maxey 901.678.2843 gmaxey@memphis.edu March 23, 2015 - The University of Memphis has been re-designated as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Research (CAE-R) through academic year 2021 by the National Security Agency and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. “This is a great honor for the University, and for the University’s Center for Information Assurance (CfIA) as well,” said Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta, professor of computer science and founding director of the CfIA. At the forefront of research, education, and outreach on Information Assurance (IA) in the region, the Center for Information Assurance was established in 2004 through the collaboration of the Computer Science, Management Information Systems, Electrical Engineering and Criminology and Criminal Justice departments, as well as partnerships with community colleges focusing on cyber security and IA-related topics. The Center is active in the advancement of IA education on campus and throughout the region, focusing on issues that threaten our nation’s critical infrastructure, and working toward providing solutions that enhance both local and national cyber security efforts. The UofM will accept the certification at the 19th Annual Colloquium for Information Systems Security Education (CISSE) in Las Vegas in June. UofM Redesignated as Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Contact: Gabrielle Maxey 901.678.2843 gmaxey@memphis.edu August 8, 2014 - In the battle to combat hackers, viruses and other security issues, the University of Memphis is at the center of the national effort to secure cyberspace. The University has been re-designated by the National Security Agency and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education. The designation covers academic years 2014-2021. The certification was presented to the UofM’s Center for Information Assurance (CfIA) recently at the Colloquium for Information Systems Security Education in San Diego. Directed by Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta, professor of computer science, and Dr. Judith Simon, professor of management information systems, the Center develops educational tools, programs and training for the Mid-South. By offering information assurance courses and hosting workshops for the students and professionals, including police and other law enforcement officials, the CfIA is working to create a future of secure online commerce and a safe computing environment. The Center also contributes to the community by training local educators at all levels to serve their students better. This summer Dasgupta received a National Science Foundation grant for a project to develop innovative “puzzles” that use specialized software to help community college students learn the concepts of and approaches to cybersecurity. More information is available online at . News &amp; Events Community Outreach Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .