#http://www.memphis.edu/parking/tigerpark-training.php
Parking and Transportation Services - Parking &amp; Transportation Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parking and Transportation Services Staff Directory Permit &amp; Other Parking Lambuth/Millington Parking Resources Home Parking &amp; Transportation Services Parking and Transportation Services TigerPark Training Logging Into TigerPark for Faculty/Staff and Students Viewing Your Citations Appealing Citations Online Purchasing a Permit Online Logging Into TigerPark for Faculty/Staff and Students Faculty, staff and students can access TigerPark through the myMemphis portal. Login to the myMemphis portal with your University username and password. Guests will not have an account within the portal. To appeal a citation or view their account information, guests may access TigerPark here . Customers will click on TigerPark (highlighted at the bottom of the TigerPark channel). Please note that users may also enter TigerPark through the Parking &amp; Transportation Services Web site . Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to always access TigerPark via the myMemphis portal to take advantage of single sign-on access. Viewing Your Citations After successfully entering TigerPark, users will see the above screen. If attempting to view citations, click on View Your Citations . The View Your Parking Citations screen displays information related to a specific citation, including the status of any appeals currently in process for that citation. If the citation is less than fifteen (15) days old, users will have the ability to appeal the citation online by clicking the link in the Appeal Status/Number column. If the citation is more than fifteen (15) days old, "Appeal N/A" will appear. Contact Parking &amp; Transportation Services if you have any questions related to citation appeals. The Your Citation Details screen display the details of the citation and your vehicle information. Clicking on the license plate number of a registered vechile will access the Your Vehicle Details screen. This screen displays the vehicle information on record in Parking &amp; Transportation Services. Appealing Citations Online The Search for a Citation to Appeal screen allows users to search for any citation on record. Once the citation and license plate numbers are entered users are directed to the appeal agreement screen. The e-mail, address, and appeal reason fields are required. Once an appeal is submitted, users are provided an appeal receipt. Please print this receipt for your records. Purchasing a Permit Online The Effective Term corresponds with the semester for which permit sales are currently available. Select the radio button for the permit in which you are interested. Signify that you have read and understand the corresponding rules and regulations, and click Next . Choose the lot in which you wish to park from the Lot dropdown box, and click Next . The fee associated with this lot/permit will appear in the Fee column. Click Next to proceed with this purchase. Select your method of payment from the Payment Method dropdown box and click Continue . If your selection was an electronic check, you will need to provide the account type, ABA routing number, account number, and the account holder's name in the specified fields. If you pay by credit card, you will need to enter the required credit card fields. The University does not accept American Express. Click Continue when complete. PLEASE NOTE : Return Check Service Charge $30: Applies to each check/draft or credit card returned unpaid by your financial institution. This fee will also be assessed if a keying error on your part results in your financial institution's failure to honor the draft. If applicable, please read the Electronic Check Payment Information disclosure carefully, and click Continue to proceed. Your payment will be processed and, if approved, you will be taken to a confirmation screen. You may print this page for your records. TigerPark Don’t wait in line…Go online! The Blue Line The Blue Line shuttle at the University of Memphis. Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place. Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .