#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/expenses/other_registration.php
Other Registration Fees - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Expenses Other Registration Fees Other Registration Fees Residency Classification: All determinations concerning the classification of students as in state or out of state for fee purposes are made in the Office of Admissions. The determinations are based on the regulations and guidelines of the Tennessee Board of Regents. If, for any reason, there is a question about a student's residency classification for fee payment purposes, the student is responsible for requesting a review of his or her residency status before classes begin. Academic Common Market: Participation in the Academic Common Market allows qualified students from southern states to pay in-state tuition while pursuing certain degree programs at the University of Memphis. This arrangement is available only for students whose home states do not offer the designated program. The state in which the student resides determines which of the programs offered by the University of Memphis the home state will make available to its students. The Academic Common Market is sponsored by the Southern Regional Education Board (SREB). Participating states are Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia (Florida and Texas grant access for graduate level programs only). Current SREB common market guidelines and requirements may be found on the web at: Students may request through their home state coordinators that additional programs be made accessible. A list of the state coordinators with their addresses and telephone numbers may be obtained from the Office of Curriculum Planning or the Academic Common Market web site In addition to certification requirements which the student's state of residence may specify, the following pertain: (1) students must be fully admitted to a degree program that has been approved as an Academic Common Market program (non-degree students are ineligible); (2) students must obtain a letter certifying residency term of entry and approval for the particular University of Memphis program from their state's Academic Common Market coordinator. NOTE: After enrollment, students remain eligible for in-state tuition only so long as they are continuously enrolled-consecutive fall and spring terms- in the same major for which they were originally certified. If students change major, they must process a Change of Major through their advisor and notify the Office of Admissions to change the Academic Common Market residency code on their records. Failure to process the Change of Major and to notify Office of Admissions may subject the student to out-of state fees for all subsequent terms of enrollment in classes for a major other than the one for which the student received ACM certification. Missing a fall or spring term of enrollment or a change of major requires that the student be recertified through the ACM coordinator in the student's state or residence. Fees For Totally Disabled Persons And Persons Over 60 Years Of Age: Persons who are domiciled in Tennessee and (1) have a permanent disability that totally incapacitates them from the potential to work at an occupation that brings them an income, or (2) who will become 60 years of age or older during the academic semester in which they begin classes, may AUDIT courses at the University of Memphis without paying tuition charges, maintenance fees, student activity fees, access fees, or registration fees. Admission to AUDIT will be limited on an individual classroom basis according to space availability. Those who are totally disabled and those who will become 65 years of age or older during the academic semester in which they begin classes, and who are domiciled in Tennessee, may enroll for courses for credit at the cost of one-half the normal per credit hour fee, not to exceed $70 per semester. Direct inquiries regarding these programs may be addressed to Registration Service, room 003, Wilder Tower. Course Descriptions Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .