#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/bus/mgmt.php
MGMT Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning MGMT Courses MANAGEMENT (MGMT) NOTE: Students taking Business courses will be charged an additional $30 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MGMT 7940-49-8940-49. Special Topics in Management. (3). Topics vary and are listed in the online course listing. MGMT 7030 - Management & Orgnztn (3) (7000). Comprehensive analysis of concepts and applications required for effective performance of the manager's job in organizations with varied environments; management as a sub-function of the total organizational system interacting with objectives, planning, and control; organizational design and interpersonal relationships; nature of operations management. MGMT 7125 - Org Behavior Internatnl (3) Concepts and theories needed to understand the process of managing people, work groups, and organizations in a global environment; role of cultural differences relevant in international context. PREREQUISITE: Admission to IMBA concentration. MGMT 7130 - Org Behav & Performance (3) Study of human behavior, attitudes, and performance within an organizational setting; motivation, leadership, communication, group dynamics, organizational hange and development, power and politics, conflict management, cross-cultural issues; applications of theory, methods, and principles from behavioral sciences; study of individuals, groups, structure, and process to enhance organizational performance. NOTE: Open to degree-seeking students only. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 7030 or equivalent. MGMT 7135 - Seminar in Leadership (2) Theoretical and practical consideration of leadership in high performing business organizations; detailed analysis of relevant organizational behavior concepts; particular focus on theories of motivation, styles of leadership, and emotional intelligence. MGMT 7136 - Exec. Seminar in Leadership (3) Theoretical and practical consideration of leadership in high performing business organizations; team building; detailed analysis of relevant organizational behavior concepts; particular focus on theories of motivation, styles of leadership, and emotional intelligence. NOTE: only open to those enrolled in the Executive MBA program. MGMT 7160 - Global Strategic Mgmt (3) (7410). Decisions and actions for development and implementation of long-term plans that determine organizational performance; role of top management decision making in establishing the firm's mission; focus on strategic analysis of alternative actions; evaluation of environmental conditions, industry characteristics, and organizational capabilities in determining strategy in a global context. MGMT 7161 - Intl Business Strategy (3) Business strategy from perspective of general manager in a multinational enterprise, promoting long-term success of the organization; heavy emphasis on case study; includes management of multinational enterprise, strategic thinking in a global context, internal firm analysis, industry and competitor analysis, and related international strategy issues. PREREQUISITES: Admission to IMBA concentration. MGMT 7170 - International Mgmt (3) Foreign operations of American firms, impact of foreign competition on the domestic market, and management of multinational enterprises; identification, analysis, and resolution of managerial issues in multinational business operations. MGMT 7173 - Executive Communications (3) Theory of communication essential to management with written, oral, and interpersonal applications; use of case problems to develop effective, efficient, and ethical communication strategies; impact of communication technology; intercultural communication; collection, analysis, and organization of primary and secondary data, followed by written and oral presentations. MGMT 7210 - Sem Industrl Relations (3) An in-depth examination of selected problems in labor management relations; emphasis on an understanding of past practices as well as current trends that relate to present-day activities in industrial relations. MGMT 7220 - Semn Humn Res Mgmt I (3) Problems and issues deriving from movements and trends in the management of human resources caused by changing laws, union activities, and the demands of our culture. The student is required to select one or more recent concepts or problems for intensive study and critical analysis. MGMT 7250 - Strategic Human Captl Mgmt (3) Theories, research, and practice in managing human resources strategically in business organizations. Topics include strategic HRM and planning, legal environment and managing diversity, job analysis, job design, recruitment, selection, training and development, performance management, turnover, and retention. MGMT 7260 - Semn Humn Res Mgmt II (3) Concepts and issues concerning understanding of jobs and performance of jobs; job analysis that creates foundation for selection and performance; use of job requirements for developing selection criteria and performance standards. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 7030. MGMT 7270 - Ventur/Bldg/Sust Succ Enterp (3) The field of business venturing, which emphasizes the start-up phases of entrepreneurship, is a popular and growing area of the business curriculum. This course is designed to accomplish the fundamental objectives of learning how to design, implement, and sustain a business around a new business idea. This course provides a foundational introduction to the process of venturing for MBA students. MGMT 7421 - Self Leadership/Executives (2) Application of critical thinking skills to the major theories, concepts, and principles of self leadership; emphasizes understanding each stage of the self leadership process, applying critical thinking skills to each element of self leadership, and the overall logic of self leadership. MGMT 7422 - Sem Organizational Thry (3) Major historical and contemporary theories of organization; emphasis on study of organizational structures, principles, techniques, and processes as they relate to management of organizations. Individual studies will be pursued with group analysis and discussion at regular class meetings. MGMT 7423 - Sem/Organztl Behavr II (3) Employee-organization linkages, theories of human stress and cognition in organizations; cognitive processes in organizational contexts including social cognition, commitment, self-regulation, intrinsic-extrinsic rewards, coping with stressful organizational and life events, and determinants of pro-social behavior in work contexts. MGMT 7500 - Sem/Strategic Mgmt (3) Literature of strategic management, including contributions of other fields to strategic management. MGMT 7506 - Sem/Indstry & Comp Anlys (3) Competitive environment of business organizations; emphasis on understanding industry structure and the positioning of firms in relation to major rivals. MGMT 7508 - Sem/Corporate Strategy (3) Research literature on corporate-level strategy topics; corporate strategy as well as decision and implementation processes and problems; strategic issues of multibusiness firms. MGMT 7510 - Sem/Strtgy & Plan Rsrch (3) Specialized areas in strategic management review of relevant literature and methodology; emphasis on problem determination, analysis, and preparation of comprehensive reports and research proposals. MGMT 7520 - Semn Org Change Mgmt (3) Diagnosis of problems reducing organizational effectiveness, techniques for introducing and implementing change in organizations, theoretical basis of organizational development, and rationale for organizational development. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 7030. MGMT 7910 - Problems In Mgmt (1-6) Directed independent research projects in an area selected by the student with approval of the staff member supervising and permission of Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MGMT 7996 - Thesis (3-6) Application for writing a thesis must be filled out on an approved form after consultation with the major professor and filed with the Faculty Director of Master's Programs. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MGMT 8220 - Sem in Humn Resource Mgmt I (3) Problems and issues in human resource management such as staffing organizations, managing diversity in the workplace, and employee training. Students are required to select one or more recent concepts or problems for intensive study and critical analysis. MGMT 8260 - Semn in Humn Resource Mgmt II (3) Problems and issues in human resource management such as staffing organizations, managing diversity in the workplace, and employee training. Students are required to select one or more recent concepts or problems for intensive study and critical analysis. MGMT 8421 - Sem/Organztl Behavr I (3) Individual and group behavior within work organizations; emphasis on the study of behavioral science concepts and research and their applications to management of organizations. Individual studies will be pursued with group analysis and discussion at regular class meetings. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 7030. MGMT 8422 - Sem Organizational Thry (3) Major historical and contemporary theories of organization; emphasis on study of organizational structures, principles, techniques, and processes as they relate to management of organizations. Individual studies will be pursued with group analysis and discussion at regular class meetings. MGMT 8423 - Sem/Organztl Behavr II (3) Employee-organization linkages, theories of human stress and cognition in organizations; cognitive processes in organizational contexts including social cognition, commitment, self-regulation, intrinsic-extrinsic rewards, coping with stressful organizational and life events, and determinants of pro-social behavior in work contexts. MGMT 8500 - Sem/Strategic Mgmt (3) Literature of strategic management, including contributions of other fields to strategic management. MGMT 8506 - Sem/Indstry & Comp Anlys (3) Competitive environment of business organizations; emphasis on understanding industry structure and the positioning of firms in relation to major rivals. MGMT 8508 - Sem/Corporate Strategy (3) Research literature on corporate-level strategy topics; corporate strategy as well as decision and implementation processes and problems; strategic issues of multibusiness firms. MGMT 8510 - Sem/Strtgy & Plan Rsrch (3) Specialized areas in strategic management review of relevant literature and methodology; emphasis on problem determination, analysis, and preparation of comprehensive reports and research proposals. MGMT 8520 - Semn Org Change Mgmt (3) Diagnosis of problems reducing organizational effectiveness, techniques for introducing and implementing change in organizations, theoretical basis of organizational development, and rationale for organizational development. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 7030. MGMT 8910 - Problems In Mgmt (1-6) Directed independent research projects in an area selected by the student with approval of the staff member supervising and permission of Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MGMT 8921 - Sem Mgmt Research (3) Some of the statistical techniques available to the business researcher, including contingency tables, bivariate correlation analysis, regression analysis, ANOVA, discriminant analysis, and factor analysis; use of computerized statistical packages and interpretation of the results of these packages. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 3711 or 7020 or equivalent. BUSINESS EDUCATION (BUED) NOTE: Students taking Business courses will be charged an additional $30 per credit hour. BUED 7655 - Mat & Meth In Voc Educ (3) Instructional media and aids relating to vocational office education with emphasis on recent developments and research; particular emphasis on individual instruction techniques for the block-time approach to office education programs. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .