#http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/timeline.php
Enrollment Timeline - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Home Music Future Students Enrollment Timeline 2015-2016 Undergraduate Enrollment Timeline September 1 School of Music registration opens. Read APPLICATION INFORMATION . Go to "Apply Now." To apply to the School of Music, click here. Complete and submit your application. September 1 University of Memphis registration opens for Spring 2016 or Fall 2016 semesters. Have your high school and/or college mail official transcripts to: University of Memphis, Office of Admissions, 101 Wilder Tower, Memphis, TN 38152. Have your ACT and/or SAT test scores sent to the UofM Office of Admissions by the testing services. The UofM accepts records of ACT and SAT exams that appear on official high school transcripts. Transfer students applying for the Music Education degree program must provide high school ACT or SAT scores. September 26 UofM Campus Day. Contact recruitment@memphis.edu for information. October 3 UofM Campus Day. Contact recruitment@memphis.edu for information. December 1 Date for those accepted to the University to receive priority consideration for academic scholarship by the UofM. Obtain a free application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) at at . December 5 Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music (RESSOM) Audition Day/Orientation for Spring 2016 and Fall 2016; admissions and scholarship auditions 2016 January 2 The FAFSA should be mailed to the Federal Processor by this date in order to ensure maximum consideration for all financial aid programs February 6 RESSOM Audition/Orientation Day for Fall 2016; admissions and scholarship auditions February 20 RESSOM Audition/Orientation Day for Fall 2016; admissions and scholarship auditions February 27 RESSOM Audition/Orientation Day for Fall 2016; admissions and scholarship auditions Mid-March Notification to scholarship recipients begins May 1 Last day to reply to talent-based/performance scholarship offers May &amp; June &amp; July New Student Orientations. Incoming freshmen and transfer students attend university orientation days. Music majors and music minors are advised by music faculty and register for classes. Late August Check into your dormitory. Auditions for placements in instrumental and vocal ensembles. See instructions on our home page at posted in July; look for ENSEMBLE AUDITIONS. Before August 22 Enrollment fees must be satisfied prior to the first day of classes to avoid assessment of a late payment fee. August 24 Start classes. Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .