#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/provost/aboutawardsprogram/
About Awards Program - Academic Affairs - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Academic Affairs About Provost Resources Academic Affairs Units Provost CHC Partnership Faculty Spotlight Chairs of Excellence University Professorships Awards Program About Awards Programs Academic Affairs Nominations Academic Affairs Winners Faculty Awards Faculty Award Winners Home Academic Affairs Provost About Awards Programs The Office of the Provost offers two awards programs, the Faculty Awards and the Academic Affairs Awards. Faculty Awards The Faculty Awards are given by several different committees and each has its own criteria, nomination process, and awarding methods. Details of each award may be found on the Faculty Awards page and the Faculty Award Winners page . academic affairs awards The Academic Affairs Awards are given by the Office of Academic Affairs to its employees for their distinguished and dedicated service. The mission, criteria, and schedule for these awards may be found below. Information about nominations and award winners may be found on the Academic Affairs Nominations page and the Academic Affairs Award Winners page . Mission and Committee Information The mission of the Department of Academic Affairs is to provide coordination and academic support for the colleges and schools at The University of Memphis. We also provide support to the Provost in the administration of the University's academic programs, administer the broad academic services and programs, and serve as the coordinating arm for instructional units. The department develops and maintains information for decision making, conducts evaluations and assessments, and provides resources for academic improvement. The Department of Academic Affairs also provides efficient and courteous service to prospective and current students in support of their educational goals. We are dedicated to providing the support needed to navigate the day-to-day operations. Student success is our business, and we are committed to offering services that enhance opportunities for our student body. The success of Academic Affairs can directly be attributed to the commitment and dedication of its employees. In an effort to recognize this, an awards program has been formed to recognize the hard work and dedication of our employees and also encourages them to participate in the process. An Awards Committee has been established to create specific awards, develop guidelines, and make recommendations for why, how, and when the awards will be presented. The Awards Committee is comprised of members representing several areas of Academic Affairs. Committee members will serve for a two-year period, which will begin June 1 each year. Committee members for the 2015-2016 academic year are as follows: Kate Howard, Chair, Recruitment &amp; Orientation Services Martha Harrell, ITS Desktop and Smart Tech Support Mary Rhodes, Provost Office Bridget VanLandeghem, Athletic Academic Services Yolanda Mathews, Enrollment Services The Academic Affairs Awards Program has been designed to recognize those individuals who have made significant contributions to the success of the division and to convey our appreciation for their loyalty, commitment, and contributions to the University. The awards will be presented biannually at a Divisional Awards Ceremony. Criteria for awards The selection committee will make their determinations based on, but not limited to, the following criteria. The individuals nominated for the awards should have: Excellent communication skills when interacting with students, parents, and colleagues. Proven ability to cooperate and work as a team player in both the individual department as well as the Academic Affairs Division. Provided outstanding customer service to students, parents and others who seek our assistance. The ability to work independently. Effective leadership skills. Provided productive, vital contributions to the Academic Affairs Division as well as to individual departments. Maintained high standards for the daily "behind the scene" production functions. Provided timely and effective student services. Willingness to go the extra step to provide services to both students and faculty during office hours and busy "peak" times. Created an environment that provides a sense of confidence to students that the office is concerned, accurate, and responsive to their needs. Demonstrated willingness to go the extra mile to solve a problem. Provided individual leadership on projects and work teams. Taken on leadership roles when needed. Demonstrated willingness to do mundane "background" work such as completing research and using organizational skills in order to elevate their office productivity. Awards Schedule The Academic Affairs Awards Committee has established the Awards Period beginning August 1 and ending July 31. The Academic Affairs Awards Committee has designated the Spring Business Meeting should be held in April and the Fall Business Meeting should be held in October. The Academic Affairs Awards Committee has designated (tentatively) that the last week of April as Student Appreciation Week. Provost CHC Partnership Faculty Spotlight Chairs of Excellence University Professorships Awards Program About Awards Programs Academic Affairs Nominations Academic Affairs Winners Faculty Awards Faculty Award Winners Provost's Blog Check out some of the latest Academic Affairs news Academic Affairs Award Nominations Help us recognize the hard work and dedication of the University's staff Faudree Professorship Help the University retain its best and brightest faculty by donating today Critical Conversations Join the conversation today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .