#http://www.memphis.edu/me/program/
Program - ME - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Mechanical Engineering Programs Students Faculty Research Alumni News Accreditation Program Undergraduate Program Graduate Program ME Degrees Offered Home ME Program Mechanical Engineering Graduate Program The Department of Mechanical Engineering offers courses of study that lead to the Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering degree and to the Ph.D. in Engineering with a concentration in Mechanical Engineering degree. MECH Graduate Degree Requirement (from the graduate catalog) MECH Graduate Assistantships Herff Graduate Fellowships Herff Post-Doctoral Fellowships For more information please contact the Department Graduate Program Coordinator, Dr. Teong Tan . Undergraduate Program The Department of Mechanical Engineering offers an undergraduate program leading to a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering degree (B.S.M.E.). Program Educational Objectives Program Outcomes BSME Program Description and Degree Requirement BSME Course Descriptions Degree Planning Sheet Course Offerings Planned For Future Semesters Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Student Handbook Mechanical Engineering Honors Program The Mechanical Engineering Honors Program provides an exceptional educational opportunity for highly motivated students to develop their talents, interests, and abilities within a curriculum designed to encourage independence and creativity. ADMISSION: Incoming freshmen who score a minimum of 26 on the ACT or its equivalent are invited to participate. Transfer students or students previously enrolled at The University of Memphis are eligible for the program if they have an overall grade point average of 3.00 and a grade point average of 3.25 for course work within the Herff College of Engineering. The departmental honors committee admits eligible students to the program upon approval of the Application for Admission to the Mechanical Engineering Honors Program. Students with academic records that fall short of these requirements may apply for provisional acceptance. Contact the Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Coordinator for more information. Applications can be downloaded here . RETENTION: Participants must maintain a minimum overall grade point average of 3.00 and a minimum grade point average of 3.25 for course work within the college to continue in the program. The departmental honors committee may grant participants failing to meet this requirement a one semester probationary period before they are dismissed from the program. REQUIREMENTS : 1) To qualify for the designation With Honors in Mechanical Engineering , a student must successfully complete a minimum of 18 semester hours from the following: 1) MECH 4395 and MECH 4396, and 2) 12 credits of mechanical engineering honors courses. 2) To qualify for the designations With Honors in Mechanical Engineering and University Honors With Thesis , a student must successfully complete a minimum of 24 semester hours from the following: 1) MECH 4395 and MECH 4396, 2) 9 credits of mechanical engineering honors courses, 3) UNHP1101 or UNHP 1102, and 4) 6 credits of general education honors courses. Honors sections of both lower and upper division mechanical engineering courses are offered regularly and are included in the Class Schedule . To enroll in mechanical engineering honors sections, student must request departmental approval. A minimum grade of “B” is required in each honors course for it to count toward fulfilling the honors course requirement, but regular credit for the course will be earned if the grade is lower than a “B”. A participant must select a major advisor by the beginning of the first semester senior year and enroll in MECH 4395, Honors Thesis Proposal. Successful completion of this course requires acceptance of a thesis proposal by the departmental honors committee. During the second semester of the senior year a participant must enroll in MECH 4396, Honors Thesis. Successful completion of this course requires acceptance of a thesis by the departmental honors committee. DESIGNATION: Students successfully completing the prescribed course work will have earned the designation of With Honors in Mechanical Engineering . This designation will be recognized at the commencement ceremony and it will appear on the transcript and diploma. Program Undergraduate Program Graduate Program ME Degrees Offered About ME News Herff College of Engineering Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .