#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/graduate_student_handbook.pdf
Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 1 COLLEGE OF EDUCATION Graduate Handbook Doctoral Degree Programs Table of Contents Introduction 2 Part 1 From Admission to Graduation: A Practical Guide 3 Part 2 Academic Support Services 1 2 Part 3 Add/Drop/Withdrawal Process 1 3 Appendix Form s to be Filed with the College of Education 1 4 Dissertation Committee Appointments Evaluation of Transfer Credit Doctoral Program of Studies Application to Conduct Research with Human Subjects Doctoral Residency Plan Changes in Program of Studies Comprehensive Examination Results Doctoral Advisory Committee Appointments Pro posal Approval Doctoral Degree Candidacy Intent to Graduate Card Dissertation Defense Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 2 Introduction This handbook provides important information to College of Educ ation doctoral students. Part 1 , From Admission to Graduation: A Practical Guide , details the procedures mandated by the College of Education for Ed.D./Ph.D. candidates. Part 2 , Academic Support Services , describes useful student resources, and Part 3 , Add / Drop / Withdrawal Process , presents these policies. In addition, the Appendix furnishes a complete set of required forms. Frequently updated information, along with links to the graduate catalog, applications, schedules, and forms may be found on the f ollowing web sites: The University of Memphis home page: The University of Memphis College of Education home page: The College of Education Graduate Programs home page : - graduation.htm The University of Memphis Graduate School home page: http:// .memphis.edu/gradschool/ The University of Memphis Graduate Catalog Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 3 Part 1 From Admission to Graduation: A Practical Gu ide Part 1 presents a step - by - step guide through the policies and paperwork essential to College of Education graduate students. It combines brief procedural explanations with a check list format to assist in accurate record keeping. Part 1 has the followi ng sequential sections: 1. Admissions Procedures 2. Upon Notification of Acceptance 3. Program Advisory Committee 4. Program of Studies 5. Residency 6. Upon Completion of the Scholarly Product 7. Comprehensive Examinations 8. Dissertation Advisory Committee 9. Dissertation Proposal 10. Dissertation 11. Final Semester and Graduation Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 4 1. Admissions Procedures Admission to a d octoral program requires acceptance by both The University of Memphis Graduate School and accept ance by the department awarding your degree. Though the following explanation describes many of the application procedures, contact the department to which you are applying as soon as possible for specific information. The University of Memphis Graduate School requirements as e xplained within the Admissions and Regulations section of the Graduate School Catalog include both new admission and readmission procedures. For New Admission o Complete and submit an online application form. See Office of Admission website: http:// admissions.memphis.edu/apply.shtml o Have official transcripts for all previous graduate course work sent to the Graduate Admissions Office. o Take the Graduate Record Examination (GRE). You may obtain information about test times and preparation from The Uni versity of Memphis Testing Center, 678 - 2428 . for information about taking an on - line computer version of this examination and receiving same day results. Contact the department to which you are applying for grad uate admission test score standards. o Obtain and submit a paper application for admission to the department within the College of Education Prospective students should check with the department program coordinator of the pro gram to which they are applying for specific deadlines. For admission to a degree program, applicants should allow a reasonable amount of time for necessary documents to be processed by the appropriate degree program and the Graduate School (approx imately four to six weeks). International applicants should allow at least four months for the application process. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure consideration. Contact the department about any requirements and deadlines. For Readmis sion This procedure applies to all graduate students except those designated as Late Doctoral Students. If you have previously attended T he University of Memphis Graduate School and have not enrolled for a semester , ex cluding summer, you must apply for readmission. Readmission may subject the student to all of the rules, prerequisites, and degree requirements listed in the current Graduate Catalog. Submission of an application for readmission does not e nsure ac ceptance. Readmission may be denied or conditions may be imposed on the student. o Contact the Graduate Office of Admissions and follow the specified procedures: (Wilder Tower, 678 - 2111 or ). Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 5 Departmental Admissions Contact the department to which you are applying for admissions requirements and deadlines. Some programs require that admission to the program be completed before any courses may be taken . O thers permit a maximum of 12 semester hours of course work prior to admission and while in a non - degree status . o Obtain a department application and complete the department admissions procedures. Departments may require an interview and a writing sample. o Obtain the recommendations required by the department . 2. Upon Notification of Acceptance o Your letter of acceptance will include the name of your temporary advisor. o Meet with your advisor to plan your course work for the first semester and to d iscuss the d octoral process. 3. Program Advisory Committee (form during the first semester) Advisory Committee. The Program Advisory Committee will assist the student in developing a program of studies (see section) and conduct the comprehensive examination (see section). A Dissertation Advisory Committee (see section) may or may not be the Com proposal , dissertation, and final dissertation defense (see appropriate sections for more information). o Meet with your advisor to identify a Program Advisory Committee of at least 3 members. The student may request a different advisor. The advisor serves as c hair of this committee . You may choose t o also add a fourth member required for the Dissertation Advisory Committee. Committee Membership 1. Membership a) The Program Advisory Committee must consist of at least three graduate faculty members. b) The Dissertation Advisory Committee must consist of at least four graduate faculty members. 2. The Chair (major professor) area of concentration within his/her major. 3. Only one adjunct o r affiliate graduate faculty member may serve as a member of the committee. 4 . At least one other committee member must be a facul Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 6 5 . The remaining committee members may be within major, department and college. o File a Doctoral Commit tee Appointment form (see the Appendix) with the COE Office of Graduate Studies. Note: Most f o rms submitted by doctoral students require the signature of the doctoral advisor (major professor) , the department chair (or designee) , a nd the n the COE Associate Dean for Graduate Studies . forwarded to the Graduate School . 4. Program of Studies (determine during the first semester) Each Program of Studies is individually designed by the student and the Program Advisory s and e nsure mastery of the knowledge, skills, and disposition requisite of the discipline. The Program of Studies for the Doctoral degree must include a minimum of 54 semester hours to be earned within ten years of passing your comprehensive examination and within twelve years of the date of graduation. (Some programs have a shorte r time limit for completion of requiremen ts.) Courses taken at another university and included within the Program of Studies must be approved by the Program Advisory Committee in order to fulfill degree requirements. No more than 1 5 semester hours of post - masters course work, completed at any university prior to admission to the d octoral program, may be applied towards the degree. o If transferring course work, complete the Evaluation of Transfer Credit form (see Appendix). o unted toward a doctoral degree. o The College of Education, with approval from the Vice Provost for Graduate Programs , may offer graduate courses for credit by examination and course validation. Refer to the Graduate Catalog for guidelines. o Meet with your Program Advisory Committee in order to plan the Program of Studies. The doctoral student is responsible for organizing this meeting. o File a completed Doctoral Program of Studies form (see the Appendix) with the COE Office of Graduate Studies. 5. Residency The purpose of the r esidency is to provide d octoral students with significant time for sustained participation with peers and faculty members in scholarly/creative activities. Residency is expected to be a vehicle for socialization into the shared community of professional life. Expected outcomes include the acquisition of skills of inquiry, development of research techniques, and the incorporation of professional values. Th is Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 7 definition of r esidency is unr elated to the definition of r esidency associated with payment of fees. The r esidency requires continuous enrollment in conjunction with the planning and completion of a Scholarly Research Project . This p roject must lead to a paper submitted to a refereed journal or accepted for presentation at a peer reviewed conference. Prior to beginning the residence time period , the Program of Studies must be approved and submitted to the Associate Dean for Graduate Studies . o Plan a S cholarly R esearch P roject with the assistance of your advisor. Consult with your advisor about the departmental procedures necessary for the approval of a proposal for the Scholarly Project. o All University of Memphis faculty, staff or students who propose to engage in any research activity involving human subjects must have approval from the Institutional Review Board (IRB) before the research begins . Additional information c an be obtained from the following website: o Select one of the following cont inuous enrollment options: a. 9 hrs/semester for 2 consecutive semesters b. 6 hrs/semester for 3 consecutive semesters c. consecutive enrollments for 9 hrs first summer 3 hrs fall 3 hrs spring 9 hrs second summer 6. Upon Completion of the Scholarly Research Pro ject o Submit a copy of your S cholarl y R esearch P ro jec t to your advisor. o A copy of your completed Sc holarly Research P ro je ct , related IRB approval letter, notice of receipt of submission to a peer - reviewed journal or professional meeting, and a memo of transmitta l from the c hair of your Program Advisory Committee to the COE Associate Graduate Studies must be placed in your folder located within the COE Office of Graduate Studies before being cleared to take the c omprehensiv e e xamination . 7. Comprehensive Examination (Comps) The d octoral mastery of the body of knowledge to issues and problems. When a d octoral student ha s completed all course requirements or is enrolled in the last course (s) on the studen Program of Studies, exclusive of the dissertation, and h as completed r esidency including the S cholar l y Research P ro je ct , the candidate must pass a comprehensive examination. The examination must consist of both written and oral portions Advisory Committee. Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 8 Prior to Comprehensive Examination o Meet with your advisor to plan for the c omprehensive examination and schedule dates for the written comprehensive examination. o If necessary, file a Change of Program of Studies form ( see the Appendix). o Your advisor files a written request with the COE Office of Graduate Studies for you to take the c omprehensive e xamination . Then the COE Office of Graduate Studies verifies the student or the c omprehensive e xamination by verifying completion of courses on the Doctoral Program of Studies and completion of the Residency Project. o Your advisor receives clearance from the COE Office of Graduate Studies for you to take the c omprehensive e xam ination . Written Comprehensive Examination The written portion of the comprehensive examination involves a minimum of n ine hours with a minimum of two hours covering the College of Education core research area. The e xam ination must be c ompleted within two consecutive weeks. The number of questions may vary according to the preferences of the exam coordinator (major advisor), as long as the time allotted fulfills the time requirements for the examination. Reference materials may be used during the portions of the examination that are subjective and application based. The Program Advisory Committee will decide for which questions, if any, reference materials may be used and the nature of the reference materials to be used. o Take the w ritten c omprehensive e xamination. Oral Comprehensive Examination The oral portion of the examination should be taken within a semester of the written c omprehensive e xamination. The oral portion of the examination should be conducted to allow th e student both to clarify portions of the written examination and to discuss additional questions and issues relevant to the field of study. There is no set length of time for the oral examination. Written questions should be evaluated prior to the or al examination and be available for review by the Program Advisory Committee at the time of the examination. o Take the o ral c omprehensive e xamination. Evaluation of The Comprehensive Examination At the conclusion of the oral examination, the student s hould be dismissed from the room while the committee discusses the performance. Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 9 The Program Advisory Committee may judge the examination to be successful (pass) or unsuccessful (fail). This evaluation jointly considers the wr itten and oral portions of the c omprehensive ex amination. If unsuccessful, the Program Advisory Committee shall specify what the student should do to address any weaknesses and the time period in which to complete these requirements. The c omprehensive e xamination may be taken no mor e than twice. The Program Advisory Committee will complete and sign the c omprehensive e xamination form (see the Appendix). The c hair of the Program Advisory Committee (your advisor) is responsible for securing the appropriate signatures and submitting the form to the COE Office of Graduate Studies. Doctoral Candida cy Status After passing the c omprehensive e xamination, the student will have achieved Doctoral Candida cy status . From this point, the student must be continuously enrolled (every fall and spring semester) for dissertation credit hours until graduation. Summer registration is also required if defense of the dissertation pro posal or of the dissertation occur s during the summ er or if actively working with the Dissertation Advisory Committee during the summer. 8. Dissertation Advisory Committee The Dissertation Advisory Committee will be formed after a student passes the c omprehensive e xamination It will dire proposal , dissertation, and final dissertation defense. The Dissertation Advisory Committee must consist of at least four graduate faculty members. It s membership may be the same as the Program Adv isory Committee with the addition of one graduate faculty member. See S ection #3 (Program Advisory Committee) on page 5 of this handbook for more specific information about committee membership. o Meet with your advisor to select a Dissertation Advisory C ommittee. The Chair of this committee becomes your advisor. Y our Chair and previous committee members may remain the same or may change . o File a Doctoral Committee Appointment form (see the Appendix). 9. Dissertation Proposal In order to provide a relatively uniform framework for preparation of the d octoral dissertation p roposal , the College of Education has specified guidelines to be followed in its preparation. o Develop your d issertation p roposal with the assistance of your advisor. Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 10 o Schedule a meeting with your Dissertation Advisory Committee to approve your p roposal . All committee members must be active participants in this meeting. o Give copies of your p roposal to each member of your committee at least two weeks prior to this meeting. o All University of Memphis faculty, staff , or students who propose to engage in any research activity involving human subjects must have approval from the Institutional Review Board (IRB) before data collection begins . Additional information can be obtained from the following website: o File Proposal Approval Form (see the Appendix) , a copy of the IRB approval letter, and a copy of your approved p roposal with the COE Office of Graduate Studies . 10. Dissertation Dissertations must be prepared according to the guidelines specified by the College of Education . All dissertations in the C ollege of Education conform to the APA Style Manual. Consult with your Dissertation Advisory Committee in order to determine how they want to be involved in the development and review of your d issertation study. Information about dissertation preparation can be found at the following website: . 11. Final Semester and Graduation The following paragraphs provide a timeline for completing graduation requirements : o At the beginning of the semester of graduation study the Graduate School inform ation regarding the graduation requirements at this web a d dress: . o At the beginning of the semester of graduation file a Doctoral Degree Candidacy form with the COE Office of Graduate Studies. This should first be signed by your committee and then the chair of the department. Th e Graduate School deadline is typically during the second week of the semester. ( ) o At the beginning of the semester of graduation electronically submit the In tent to Graduate form to the Graduate School . Th e deadline is typically during the second week of the semester. ( tograduate/ ) o No later than nine weeks before graduation, deliver the final draft of your d issertation to your c ommittee c hair . Pay the gradu ation fee (see this website for exact d eadline: ). o No later than eight weeks before graduation, deliver a final draft o f your d issertation to your D issertation A dvisory C ommittee . Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 11 o No later than seven weeks before graduation, schedule the final defense of your d issertation. All committee members must be active participant s at the defense . o A written announcements of your final defense of the d issertation must be distributed . Printing information and the distribution list can be obtained f r o m the COE Office of Graduate Studies ( - final - exam - announcement.htm ) . The Office of Graduate Studies distributes this announcement electronically to the COE faculty. The notice must be distributed at least one week before the defense. o The f inal defense of your d issertation. o The Dissertation Advisory Committee completes the Dissertation Defense form ( is.edu/gradschool/form/defense.php ). The chair of the Dissertation Advisory Committee (your advisor) is responsible for securing the appropriate signatures and delivering the form to the COE Office of Graduate Studies. o Revise the d issertation if necessar y . o Submit the revised d issertation to your Dissertation Advisory Committee for approval. o No later than four weeks before graduation, deliver a final defended draft of your d issertation to the Graduate School . S ubmit the checklist for users of the American Psychological Association Publication (APA) Manual ( latest e dition). The checklist can be found on the Graduate School website : o No later than 14 days before graduation ( for exact date see ), submit the final copies of your d issertation to the Graduate School. Grad uation! Congratulations! Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 12 PART 2 Academic Support Services 1. Academic Computing Services Apply for a free Universal User ID (UUID) at Client Services, 134 Administration Building, 678 - 8888. It provides access to computers in TAF labs, universit y software, on - line library services, email accounts, free web pages, national databases, and electronic networks. Information regarding a ssistance from the Information Technology Division, including software access, is available from this website: 2. College of Education Computing Services The College of Education operates s everal computer laboratories with equipment available for student use. The computer laboratories are located on the third floor of Ball Hall and in the Field House and are networked with the u niversity and the Internet. The laboratories are open to all s tudents with a valid University of Memphis universal user ID (UUID) in order to log in. Four laboratories are designed to jointly support classroom instruction and general use wit h one reserved for special advance media applications . The classroom laboratories are available for use when classes are not scheduled. The Ball Hall general use l aboratories are open during regular school session as follows: 8:00 AM - 9:00 PM Monday - Thursday 8:00 AM - 4: 3 0 PM Friday 8:30 AM - 1 2 : 3 0 PM Saturday (except summer) 3. Library Services The University of Memphis libraries include the main library and six branch libraries. These inclu de Audiology and Speech Pathology, Chemistry, Engineering, Law, Mathematics, and Music . Main library services hours are posted at all doors of the main library and in all branches. Hours fluctuate, depending upon semester and holiday sch edules. Branch libraries maintain different service hours, which are posted at the specific branch. Instruction in the use of catalogs, indexes, abstracts, and research materials is offered at the main library. The instruction librarian will schedule gener al orientation sessions, subject seminars, or formal instruction sessions for groups or classes. C omputer workstations allow users to search subject databases in cluding education, business, psychology, literature, and dissertations an d access electronically stored journals and eBooks . Copy machines that accept Tiger funds o n the u niversity student ID cards are available in the main and branch libraries. Using Interlibrary Loan, faculty, staff, and graduate students may reque st materials from other libraries when not found in The University of Memphis libraries . Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 13 PART 3 Add/Drop/Withdrawal Process 1. Adding Classes The Schedule of Classes specifies the procedures and deadlines for adding classes. Use the following procedure after the last deadline for late registration (late adds) : 1. Obtain an electronic permit submitted by the d epartment staff to add course. 2. O btain a Schedule Adjustment Form from the Education Graduate Studies Office, 215 Ball Education Building . This form must be signed by the Associat e Dean for Graduate Studies in Education . 4 . Walk documents to Records in Wilder Tower . Be prepared to pay fees at this time. 2. Dropping Classes/ Withdrawal Procedure The procedures and support forms needed for dropping classes or withdrawing from the University after the last date specified in the University Calendar for that term can be found at the following website: 1. Bring the completed support form and required documentation to the College of Education Graduate Studies Office, 215 Ball Education Building , and obtain a Schedule Adjustment Form. This form must be signed by the Associat e Dean for Graduate Studies in Education. 2. Walk Schedule Adjustment Form to Records in Wilder Tower . Doctoral Handbook November 10 , 200 9 14 APPENDIX Required Doctoral Forms to be Filed with the College of Education and the Graduate School (Forms are available in 215 Ball Hall or the following websites:) Date Filed 1. Doctoral Committee Appointment (Program Advisory Committee) _form.pdf _________ 2 . Doctoral Program of Studies - program - of - studies.doc _________ 2. Evaluation of Transfer Credit (if needed) _________ 4 . Change of Program of Studies _________ 5 . Comprehensive Examination _________ 6 . Doctoral Committee Appointment (Dissertation Advisory Committee) _________ 7 . Proposal Approval _________ 8 . Doctoral Degree Candidacy http :// _________ 10. Intent to Graduate _________ 11. Dissertation Defense Announcement - final - exam - announcement.htm ________ 1 2 . Dissertation Defense .memphis.edu/gradschool/form/defense.php _________