#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/services/fac_reserve.php
Faculty Reserves - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Services Circulation &amp; Borrowing Checkout Guidelines Late Fees/Fines Renewals &amp; Returns Search/Recall/Hold Course Reserves Reserves - Students Reserves - Faculty Electronic Reserves Policy Fair Use Checklist Research &amp; Instructional Services Instruction Request Instruction Center Library Liasons Learning Commons Tour Request Technology Assistance Off-Campus Access Technology Resources Laptop Checkout Computer Labs Wireless Access Library Printing/Copying 3D Labs Study Facilities Reserve a Study Room Study Carrel Policy Group Study Rooms Home Libraries Services Faculty Reserves Placing Material on Reserve The instructor is responsible for bringing any books, copies, or videos to the Reserve Room. While it is encouraged that copies of articles chapters or other reprints be delivered to the library in individual folders or binders, it is not required. The instructor is responsible for bringing any proposed reserve materials to the Reserve Room. When adding material, a completed Instructor Reserve Form must accompany each request (this includes library books). The form is available on the Forms page of the library web site or at the Reserve Desk. Please allow three (3) business days to process your request. Processing may take longer at the start of the semester. If copyright guidelines are met, you may place the following materials on reserve: UofM library books (it is not necessary to check them out first) Personal books Copies of articles from newspapers, journals, magazines, and the internet Videos (no commercial vendors or other libraries) CDs, DVDs, Audiocassette Tapes (no commercial vendors or other libraries) Any material other than that listed above may need special consideration and is subject to approval. Please contact Casey Parkman . At the end of the semester, all reserve materials will be automatically removed from the Reserve Room. Instructors must contact Casey Parkman to request a continuation before the last day of classes. Copyright Guidelines The copyright law (1978) of the United States governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of copyrighted material. Photocopies or reproductions can be placed on Reserve only under these conditions: They will be used solely for private study, scholarship, or research. The total amount photocopied from one source does not exceed "Fair Use" of the material (see explanation below). A copyright compliance statement with bibliographic information is included on the first page. Under the Digital Millenium Copyright Act (1998),"Fair Use" is described as: No more than three (3) copies of anything No more than one (1) article per individual periodical, magazine, or newspaper No more than one (1) chapter per book Please use the Fair Use Checklist to determine whether your material is within guidelines. Please include this completed form with your materials. Copies of journal articles may only be used for one semester unless written approval of the copyright holder is granted. Copyright permission may be obtained from the owner of the copyright or from the Copyright Clearance Center . The University Libraries reserves the right to refuse any material that violates the copyright law. Services Circulation &amp; Borrowing Checkout Guidelines Late Fees/Fines Renewals &amp; Returns Search/Recall/Hold Course Reserves Reserves - Students Reserves - Faculty Electronic Reserves Policy Fair Use Checklist Research &amp; Instructional Services Instruction Request Instruction Center Library Liasons Learning Commons Tour Request Technology Assistance Off-Campus Access Technology Resources Laptop Checkout Computer Labs Wireless Access Library Printing/Copying 3D Labs Study Facilities Reserve a Study Room Study Carrel Policy Group Study Rooms My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .