#http://www.memphis.edu/museumstudies/courses/
Courses - Museum Studies - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies About Program Admission Courses Requirements Faculty Courses Application Form Recommendation Request Form Home Museum Studies Courses Curriculum Total Required Hours: 18 1) Required Core Courses (6 hours): ANTH/ARTH 7661 Museum Practices (3 hours) ANTH/ARTH 7662 Museums and Communities (3 hours) 2) Required Internships (6 hours): ARTH/ANTH 7669 Museum Internship (3 hours; must be repeated for 6 hours total) 3 credit-hours of supervised internship at two different museums (6 hours total). Each internship site will be chosen by the student in consultation with the Admissions and Advisory Committee and with the approval of the program coordinator (Dr. Luebbers). For those students who already work in a museum or other appropriate site, only one internship outside of the work site will be required. The remaining three internship hours may be fulfilled with an elective course. NOTE: The student must be officially admitted to the Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies and have successfully completed at least one core course, before any internship will be approved. 3) Elective Courses (6 hours): Two elective courses will be selected by the student in consultation with the Admissions and Advisory Committee and with the approval of the program coordinator (Dr. Luebbers). Unless a special exemption is requested, students in the Departments of Anthropology and Art (including Art History) must take at least three elective credit-hours (one course) outside of their major department. Students from departments other than Anthropology or Art do not have this requirement. Sample Elective Courses: Below is a sample of courses from which the student might choose their electives. The student is free to select courses not listed below in consultation with the Admissions and Advisory Committee. Art History - ARTH/ANTH 6660 Museum Collections (3 hours) ARTH/ANTH 6661 Collections Research (3 hours) ARTH/ANTH 6662 Museum Exhibitions (3 hours) ARTH 6381 Art Curatorial Techniques (3 hours) ARTH 7130/8130 Art History Methods and Professional Practice (3 hours) Anthropology - ANTH/ARTH 6660 Museum Collections (3 hours) ANTH/ARTH 6661 Collections Research (3 hours) ARTH/ANTH 6662 Museum Exhibitions (3 hours) ANTH 6051 Anthropology of Education (3 hours) ANTH 6412 Neighborhood Development &amp; Social Entrepreneurship (3 hours) ANTH 6680 Applied Archaeology / Museums (3 hours) Communication - COMM 6011 Communication in Organizations (3 hours) COMM 7371 Rhetorical Criticism (3 hours) COMM 7434 Qualitative Research Methods (3 hours) Educational Psychology and Research - EDPR 7111/8111 Child Psychology Applied to Education (3 hours) EDPR 7112/8112 Adolescent Psychology Applied to Education (3 hours) EDPR 7521 Introduction to Educational Research (3 hours) EDPR 7551/8551 Introduction to Evaluation Systems (3 hours) EDPR 7561/8561 Qualitative Methods in Education (3 hours) History - HIST 6020 Internship in History (3 hours) HIST 7070/8070 Research Seminar (3 hours) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership - ICL 7054/8054 Creativity in Teaching and Curriculum (3 hours) ICL 7059/8059 Models of Instruction (3 hours) Instructional Design and Technology - ID&amp;T 7062/8062 Authoring Instructional Coursework (3 hours) IDT 7090 Developing Interactive Digital Learning Environments I (3 hours) IDT 7095/8095 Developing Interactive Digital Learning Environments II (3 hours) Public Administration - PADM 7641/8641 Theory and Practice of Nonprofit Administration (3 hours) PADM 7642/8642 Resource Development in Nonprofit Organizations (3 hours) PADM 7610 Internship in Public Administration (3 hours) (This class may not be substituted for a Museum internship) Courses Application Form Recommendation Request Form Student Wiki Check out our student-maintained Wikispace for more information about the program and Museum Studies opportunities! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .