#http://www.memphis.edu/law/faculty-staff/peter-letsou.php
Peter Letsou - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Home School of Law Faculty Peter Letsou Peter V. Letsou Dean and Professor of Law Phone (901) 678-2421 Email pvletsou@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-5210 Office Law School, Office 276 Office Hours CV SSRN About the Dean Peter Letsou joined the Memphis faculty upon his appointment as Dean in June 2013. Prior to coming to Memphis, Dean Letsou served as Dean and Wendt Chair in Business Law at Willamette University College of Law in Salem, Oregon; Professor of Law and Director of the Center for Corporate Law at the University of Cincinnati College of Law; and Associate and Assistant Professor of Law at George Mason University in Arlington, Virginia. In addition to his permanent appointments, Dean Letsou has held visiting professorships at University of Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne (where he served as Chair of the Americas), the University of Connecticut School of Law, and Emory University School of Law. Before entering the academy in 1990, Dean Letsou practiced law in New York City with Cravath, Swaine &amp; Moore and Christy &amp; Viener, served as Associate Counsel to the United States Senate Select Committee on Secret Military Assistance to Iran and the Nicaraguan Opposition, and clerked for the Honorable Walter R. Mansfield of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Dean Letsou received his J.D. with highest honors from the University of Chicago Law School and his B.A. in physics, magna cum laude, from Harvard University. Dean Letsou teaches and writes in the areas of corporate law, securities law, corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions. He is the author of two casebooks and numerous articles and essays. Education Harvard College, B.A. Physics 1983 (magna cum laude); The University of Chicago Law School, J.D. 1986 (with highest honors). Order of the Coif. Member, University of Chicago Law Review (1984-1986) Comment Editor, University of Chicago Law Review (1985-86); Olin Foundation Fellow in Law and Economics, 1984-86 Admitted New York State Bar Experience Dean, Roderick &amp; Carol Wendt Chair in Business Law &amp; Director, Program in Law &amp; Business (Isaac Van Winkle Melton Professor, 2002-2003; Wendt Chair since 2003-2013; Associate Dean 2006-2011; Dean 2011-2013) Willamette University College of Law, Salem, Oregon; Visiting Professor (Chair of the Americas) (Nov. 2009) University of Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne, Paris, France; Professor of Law &amp; Director, Center for Corporate Law (1997-2002) University of Cincinnati College of Law, Cincinnati, Ohio; Visiting Professor of Law (fall 2001) University of Connecticut School of Law Hartford, Connecticut; Visiting Professor of Law (fall 1999) Emory University School of Law, Atlanta, Georgia; Associate Professor of Law (1994-1997; with tenure: 1996-97); George Mason University School of Law, Arlington, Virginia; Assistant Professor of Law (1990-1994) George Mason University School of Law, Arlington, Virginia; Associate (1988-1990) Christy &amp; Viener, New York, New York; Associate (1987-1988) Cravath, Swaine &amp; Moore, New York, New York; Associate Counsel (1987) United States Senate Select Committee on Secret Military Assistance to Iran and the Nicaraguan Opposition Washington, D.C.; Law Clerk (1986-1987) The Honorable Walter R. Mansfield, United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and Division of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit for the Purpose of Appointing Independent Counsels. Teaching Interests Business Organizations, Corporate Finance, Corporations, Mergers &amp; Acquisitions, Quantitative Methods for Lawyers, and Securities Regulation. Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .