#http://www.memphis.edu/financialaid/student_employment/
Student Employment - Financial Aid - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Law Scholarships Student Employment Student Employment Pay Ranges/Payroll Dates Forms and Handbooks Regular Positions Federal Workstudy Positions International Students Home Financial Aid Student Employment News and Important Information STUDENT EMPLOYMENT GENERAL INFORMATION The University of Memphis offers two types of on-campus student employment: FEDERAL WORK-STUDY (FWS) STUDENT EMPLOYMENT and REGULAR STUDENT EMPLOYMENT (RSE). You cannot be employed under both programs simultaneously. Since there are differences in the two programs, it is important that you know under which program you are employed, and what your responsibilities will be. Federal Work-Study (FWS) FWS is a need based Financial Aid award. It is a federally funded, university administered program, designed to help students defray the costs of post-secondary education. A FWS AWARD CANNOT BE USED TO MEET REGISTRATION FEES. You are paid for hours worked, based on time submitted by your department through the University payroll system. You are eligible to work up to the point that your cumulative earnings equal the amount of your FWS award. It is the responsibility of both the student and the hiring department to monitor earnings to prevent working beyond the awarded amount. PLEASE NOTE: ALL FWS RECIPIENTS MUST BE ENROLLED, AND REMAIN ENROLLED AT LEAST PART-TIME (6 CREDIT HOURS-UNDERGRADUATE/LAW, OR 5 CREDIT HOURS-GRADUATE) FOR FALL AND SPRING TERM. You must submit the results of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. Additional documentation may be required. Listed below are answers to frequently asked questions regarding the FWS Program. If you have additional questions, please contact the Student Employment Office. How do I apply? You must demonstrate financial eligibility, or "need" by completing a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) prior to April 1 for the following academic year since FWS funds are limited. International students on F-1 visas are not eligible to apply for FWS. You must be a US citizen or permanent resident to be eligible. Where will I be working? Various departments hire FWS recipients. Actual placement depends on your skills and interests, and the needs of the departments. Job responsibilities can range from general office duties to highly specialized laboratory and computer work. If you have not been awarded FWS but are interested in the program, contact the Financial Aid Office to be reviewed for eligibility. What is the job placement procedure? If you have been awarded FWS, you may check the current jobs under Federal Work-Study Positions . You may also check with departments indididually, and are interviewed by the prospective employer for skills and interests. If you and the prospective employer agree on employment, you and hiring department must complete/submit the following (see the Student Employment Forms page): Payroll Action Form I-9 Employment Elegibility Form with a photocopy of a state or federal form of identification Direct Deposit Authorization Form W-4 Form Web Time Entry (WTE) Authorization Form Once approved, you may begin work. I just got admitted to this university, when can I start working? If you have just been admitted, you cannot start working until the first day of classes for full session for the semester you are admitted to. How many hours a week do I work? You may work up to 7.5 hours a day, 37.5 hours a week. You may not exceed the number of hours of employment for which you are approved. Also, it is up to you and the department to ensure that your work schedule does not interfere with your class schedule. All scheduling arrangements should be made with your employer. You are terminated when earnings reach the FWS award amount, or if you drop below part-time enrollment, withdraw, or graduate. Employment is automatically terminated at the end of the academic semester (and at the end of the Summer) and you must reapply for the next academic year. Where do I get my check? You are paid bi-weekly at an hourly rate. Checks are issued every other Friday and direct deposited into your bank account. If you are a new student employee, the first paycheck will need to be picked up at the Bursar's Office, Wilder Tower, Room 115. Once I have a FWS job, must I reapply each year? Yes. A FWS award is made for one academic year only, and you must submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, and other required documents each year to be awarded. A FWS award for the Summer is awarded separately. Can I have more than one job? No. You can only work one job under the FWS program, and cannot work a Regular Student Employment job or Graduate Assistant job along with a FWS job. Regular Student Employment The Regular Student Employment (RSE) program offers on-campus, part-time jobs to students who do not qualify for Federal Work-Study. The program is monitored by the university. PLEASE NOTE: YOU MUST BE ENROLLED, AND REMAIN ENROLLED AT LEAST PART-TIME (6 CREDIT HOURS-UNDERGRADUATE/LAW or 5 CREDIT HOURS-GRADUATE) FOR THE FALL AND SPRING SEMESTERS. For the Summer term under RSE, you do not have to be enrolled as long as you were enrolled at least part-time for the Spring semester and are already enrolled at least part-time in the Fall semester at this university. INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS ON F-1 VISAS MUST BE ENROLLED AT LEAST FULL-TIME (12 CREDIT HOURS-UNDERGRADUATE/LAW, OR 9 CREDIT HOURS-GRADUATE) FOR THE FALL AND SPRING SEMESTERS. The exceptions to less than full-time enrollment for international students on F-1 visas are: (1) if it is your last semester of enrollment, or you are working on your phase of dissertation or thesis, then you must be enrolled at least part-time; (2) if it is due to special circumstances (i.e. medical), then you will have to provide in writing to the Student Employment Office the reason(s) and it must be approved by the Financial Aid Director; (3) if it is during the Summer term and school breaks between semesters (winter break, Spring break), no enrollment is required. Concurrent enrollment at this university and a community college, college, and another university is not acceptable for enrollment requirements for employment eligibility at this university. INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS ON F-1 VISAS MUST OBTAIN AND USE A VALID SSN IN THE BANNER STUDENT SYSTEM IN ORDER TO BE ELIGIBLE FOR EMPLOYMENT ON-CAMPUS. The temporary 900 social security number is no longer acceptable. The student Employment Office realizes that you may not be able to have your temporary social security number changed in Banner Student system immediately to your valid Federal social security number. You will have a Human Resource System (HRS) assignment loaded with the valid Federal social security number for only one month. This will allow you plenty of time to have your social security number changed in the Banner Student system. To obtain a valid Federal social security number, you must go to the Social Security Administration Office located at 1451 Union Avenue. You must bring with you your I-20 and Passport to show them, and on letterhead, proof of employment on-campus. Once you obtain a valid Federal social security number, go the Registrar's Office in Wilder Tower, Room 003, and request that they change your temporary 900 social security number to your valid Federal social security number. You will need to show them your social security card. Contact Student Employment once your SSN has been added to the Banner Student System. Listed below are answers to frequently asked questions regarding RSE. If you have additional questions, please contact the Student Employment Office. How can I obtain a RSE position? The availability of jobs depends on student skills and the needs of campus departments. Job responsibilities can range from general office duties to highly specialized laboratory and computer work. Current jobs are listed under Regular Student Positions . NOTE: Some departments also list job opportunities on their own web site. You are referred to the department you are interested in and are interviewed by the prospective employer for skills and interests. If you and the prospective employer agree on employment, you and the department must complete a Payroll Action Form, I-9 Employment Eligibility Verification Form with a photcopy of a state or federal form of identification, Direct Deposit Authorization Form, W-4, and Web Time Entry (WTE) Acknowledgement Form and submit them to the Student Employment Office for approval. Once approved, you may begin work. I just got admitted to this university, when can I start working? If you have just been admitted, you cannot start working until the first day of classes for full session for the semester you are admitted to. How many hours may I work? You may work up to 7.5 hours per day, 37.5 hours a week, unless a limit has been placed on your hours due to visa restrictions. Also, it is up to you and the department to ensure that your work schedule does not interfere with your class schedule. All scheduling arrangements should be made with your employer. You are automatically terminated at the end of the academic semester (and at the end of the summer), or if you drop below part-time enrollment, withdraw, or graduate. Note: According to INS, if you are an international student on F-1 visa and enrolled at least full-time, you may engage in part-time on-campus employment, but not to exceed 20 hours per week, which includes all pay sources. However, you may be employed on-campus full-time, not to exceed 40 hours a week, which includes all pay sources, during school breaks (winter break, Spring break, and Summer term), your last semester before graduating, or during your thesis or dissertation phase of study, or you have special permission for full-time employment as part of a coop or internship program. The Student Employment Office will need a copy of this special permission for your employment file. If you have questions regarding employment visa restrictions, contact your International Students Advisor, Brister Hall, Room 102, at (901) 678-4271. Where do I get my check? You are paid bi-weekly at an hourly rate. Checks are issued every other Friday and direct deposited into your bank account. If you are a new student employee, the first paycheck will need to be picked up at the Bursar's Office, Wilder Tower, Room 115. Can I have more than one job? Yes. You may have more than one job under RSE; however you must submit Payroll Action Forms for each job, and you may not exceed a total of 7.5 hours a day, 37.5 hours per week. If you are already employed as a graduate assistant this semester, then you cannot get a job under RSE at the same time. Student Employment Pay Ranges/Payroll Dates Forms and Handbooks Regular Positions Federal Workstudy Positions International Students Financial Aid Forms Check your myMemphis account for missing documents. Financial Aid Checklist Some things you need to know to receive financial aid Frequently Asked Questions Some of the most common financial aid questions Links of Interest Some important links to get you started Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .