#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/provost/aanominations/
Academic Affairs Award Nominations - Academic Affairs - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Academic Affairs About Provost Resources Academic Affairs Units Provost CHC Partnership Faculty Spotlight Chairs of Excellence University Professorships Awards Program About Awards Programs Academic Affairs Nominations Academic Affairs Winners Faculty Awards Faculty Award Winners Home Academic Affairs Provost Academic Affairs Award Nominations The Office of the Provost is pleased to offer several Academic Affairs Awards to recognize the hard work and dedication of the University's staff. The awards available are: Outstanding Service Award Peer Recognition Award Provost's Star Award Student Appreciation and Recognition Award Award details Outstanding Service Award The Outstanding Service Award recognizes staff members for their outstanding service to the division and the University. Dr. Weddle-West is pleased to invite nominations and encourages each of you to recognize your fellow employees for their contributions. Use this form to submit nominations and to view further instructions. Peer Recognition Award The Peer Recognition Awards program has been established in order to encourage departmental unity. This program provides an opportunity for employees to recognize each other for outstanding service. This is a very special award – an award given by a peer to a peer. Peer recognition is not a nomination process – it is an awarding process. Individuals may award others from within or outside their department – as long as both individuals are part of Academic Affairs and have at least one year of regular service with the University. Employees may present four Peer Awards, per semester. Employees may not award two Peer Awards to the same individual within an awarding year. Nominations for the Peer Recognition Award are accepted throughout the year. However, a call for participation will periodically be distributed to all staff in Academic Affairs. All employees within the Academic Affairs Division are eligible to participate in the Peer Recognition Awards program, both as presenters and recipients. Recipients should be recognized for outstanding student, staff, departmental, or university service. The awards will be presented on an ongoing basis. All individuals receiving this will also be recognized during the Awards Ceremony. The recipient of this award will receive a certificate of recognition and the three recipients with the highest number (two or more) of peer recognitions at the end of the awarding year will be eligible for the pool of nominations for the Provost's Star Award. In the event of a tie, all recipients who qualify (i.e. have at least two nominations) will be eligible for the pool of nominations for the Provost's Star Award. Those awarding are strongly encouraged to also present the recipient with a small token of appreciation (i.e. lunch, candy, fruit basket, special card, etc.). Click here to present an award . Provost's Star Award The purpose of the Provost's Star Award is to recognize an individual for outstanding contributions toward achieving the mission of the division. The recipient of the Provost's Star Award will be selected from the pool of winners of the Outstanding Service Awards and the top three Peer Recognition Award recipients. An employee can receive this award once every three years. The Academic Affairs Awards Committee will select the winner of this award for the academic year. When determining the Provost's Star Award, the Academic Affairs Awards Committee may also consider a candidate's Peer Recognition Award(s) when they make their final decision. This award will be presented during the Awards Ceremony. The recipient will receive a plaque and a $150 monetary award. The recipient's name will be placed on a plaque displayed in a public place in Wilder Tower Lobby. Use this form to submit nominations and to view further instructions. Student Appreciation and Recognition The purpose of this recognition is to show our student employees and graduate assistants that we appreciate their hard work and contributions. This recognition will not be a selective acknowledgement. All student employees and graduate assistants will be acknowledged. The Academic Affairs Awards Committee has designated the last full week of classes in April as Student Appreciation Week. Each department may decide how they want to honor the students. This may include small gifts, lunch, or pizza party and, should occur during Student Appreciation Week. A Certificate of Appreciation will be given to all student employees and graduate assistants during Student Appreciation Week. Provost CHC Partnership Faculty Spotlight Chairs of Excellence University Professorships Awards Program About Awards Programs Academic Affairs Nominations Academic Affairs Winners Faculty Awards Faculty Award Winners Provost's Blog Check out some of the latest Academic Affairs news Academic Affairs Award Nominations Help us recognize the hard work and dedication of the University's staff Faudree Professorship Help the University retain its best and brightest faculty by donating today Critical Conversations Join the conversation today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .