#http://bf.memphis.edu/fecc//accommodations.php
Fogelman Executive Conference Center &amp; Hotel Home | Quick Facts | Conference Benefits | Request for Proposal | Contact Us You do not have the Flash plugin installed, or your browser does not support or have Javascript enabled. Please update your Flash Player. You must have version 6.0 or higher to view the flash content. Get Adobe Player . About Us Floor Plans &amp; Capacity Chart Frequently Asked Questions Holiday Inn Brochure Guest Room Accommodations Meetings &amp; Events Meetings Request for Proposal Floor Plans &amp; Capacity Chart Conference Center Concept &amp; Benefits Catering &amp; Dining Catering Request for Proposal Floor Plans &amp; Capacity Chart Menus Weddings Catering Request for Proposal Floor Plans &amp; Capacity Chart Menus Map &amp; Directions 51 fully renovated executive guest rooms at the Fogelman Executive Conference Center 82 two-room suites at the Holiday Inn Hotel Request for Proposal Meetings/Group Request for Proposal Catering Request for Proposal Guest Room Accommodations Located on the campus of the University of Memphis, the Fogelman Executive Conference Center and the all-suite Holiday Inn boast two of the finest lodging accommodations in the city of Memphis. Both of these properties are architecturally pleasing with atrium openness and designer influences throughout. Located in the heart of Memphis, the Fogelman Executive Conference Center and the all-suite Holiday Inn are conveniently adjacent to one another. Fogelman Executive Conference Center &ldquo;Executive environment&rdquo; is the order of the day at this facility, which was purposefully built to accommodate the needs of professional meeting planners and their attendees. From its black slate and glass atrium design to the high-back executive chairs, this is the ideal environment for conferences. Meeting rooms and Amphitheaters are located on the first, second, and third floors with Guest Room accommodations self-contained on the fourth floor. Guest Room Types 50 Executive Queen-bedded rooms with Balconies 1 Executive Suite Common Area Great Room Guest Room Amenities Queen Beds with Triple Sheeting Work desk Club Chair with Ottoman Wireless Internet Access Data Port for Land Line Internet Access Telephones with Voicemail Remote Control TV with Cable Coffee Maker Iron and Ironing Board Hair Dryer Holiday Inn Hotel Quality and design resound at this very unique, all-suite, full-service Holiday Inn located on the campus of the University of Memphis and adjacent to the Fogelman Executive Conference Center. This four-story atrium hotel with rich woodwork, soft leather and designer touches is the perfect setting for conferences and catering events. A European-trained executive chef reigns over the 1,000 seat ballroom, restaurant and lounge. The all-suite guest rooms provide an upscale and relaxing environment that is appreciated by conference, reunion and wedding attendees alike. Guest Room Types 80 Two-room Suites 22 King-Bedded Suites 58 Double/Double-Bedded Suites 2 Executive Master Suites Guest Room Amenities Two-Room Suites 1 King or Two Double Beds per Suite Triple Sheeting Sleeper Sofas Club Chairs with Ottomans Wet Bars Microwaves Refrigerators Coffee Makers High Speed Internet Access Wireless Internet Access in Public Areas Two Telephones with Voicemail 2 Remote Control TV&rsquo;s with Cable Irons and Ironing Boards Hair Dryers Fogelman Executive Conference Center &amp; Hotel Business Office 330 Innovation Drive, Suite 206 Memphis, Tennessee 38152 Ph: 901/678-5410 | Fax: 901/678-5329 Reservations: 901/678-5410 Group Sales: 901/678-2021 Comments &amp; Suggestions | Important Notice | U of M Home Site maintained by Business &amp; Finance Last update: 07/08/2013