#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/admissions.php
Admissions - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Admissions Admissions The University of Memphis offers equal educational opportunity to all persons without regard to race, religion, sex, creed, color, national origin, or disability. Inquiries about admission to any college of the University should be addressed to the Office of Admissions. This office receives and processes all applications, evaluates credentials, and admits qualified students. Undergraduate students may be admitted at the beginning of any regular or short term. The University of Memphis encourages all those who feel they can benefit from the educational opportunities offered by the institution to submit an application for admission. Consideration is given to educational background, entrance examination scores, high school grades, any college attendance, and any other special talents and/or special circumstances which may affect the applicant's academic performance. Certain instructional programs of the University are subject to special admission requirements and are subject to change according to the availability of institutional resources. Students wishing to enter one of these programs of study should check with the appropriate department or division offering the program in order to become familiar with these special requirements. Undergraduate programs with special admission requirements include, but are not limited to, professional degrees in art, music, or theatre (Bachelor of Fine Arts or Bachelor of Music), teacher education, educational services, nursing, and the University College. Students are encouraged to apply as early as possible. Early admission contributes to better orientation, course planning, class scheduling and financial aid and scholarship consideration. High school students planning to apply as freshmen should submit applications as soon as possible after completion of their junior year. The application for fall is usually available in October of the year preceding the upcoming fall term. The application should be completed and submitted online at . A hard-copy (paper) application is available for students unable to pay the application fee by credit card or electronic check. Credentials will be maintained for a 12-month period. After this period, credentials will be destroyed and must be submitted again before an admission decision can be made. The deadlines for submitting an application for admission are: July 1 for the fall semester, December 1 for the spring semester, and May 1 for the summer session. Although application deadlines are listed above, registration for new students occurs much earlier. For example, new fall students register in June. Applications received after these deadlines may be delayed in processing or processed at the non-degree level. These regulations are subject to change without notice. Admission as Degree-seeking Undergraduates First-time Freshman Applicants Transfer Applicants International Students Combination Senior Readmission (Returning Students) Admission as Non-Degree Undergraduates Applicants who wish to apply in one of the special categories listed below are encouraged to apply by the same deadlines as stated above. While applications may be accepted until the first day of registration for the term for which the student is applying, no guarantee of admission will be made after the deadline has passed. Special category applicants who have attended other colleges will not have their previous college work evaluated for transfer until they have been approved for admission as regular undergraduates. An applicant who has applied as a degree-seeking undergraduate and was denied admission must generally wait a fall or spring semester or six months before applying for admission at the non-degree level. Those who are admitted as non-degree students are not required to have an advisor. However, if non-degree students desire an advisor, they are assigned to the Academic Counseling Center for advising. Non-degree undergraduate students may not take more than 18 semester hours of work in a single term nor may they earn more than 24 semester hours total. This limit may be extended if there has been enrollment at another institution since last attending the University of Memphis. Applicants with College Degree Applicants with Previous College Attendance but No Degree Applicants with No Previous College Attendance Special Non-Degree Admission Categories Concurrent Enrollment Opportunities Audit-Only Undergraduate Course Descriptions Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .