#http://www.memphis.edu/umdegree/pdfs/umdegree_student_guide.pdf
1 UMdegree Login Step 1) Login in to myMemphis Step 2) Click student tab Step 3) Find & click the block labeled UMdegree 2 Step 4) Enter in Username & Password You will be taken directly to the student worksheet 3 UMdegree UMdegree Worksheet The UMdegree Worksheet gives the most recent information regarding the your academic affairs. The worksheet is divided into blocks . Each block has a title and a check box in the header and when all requirements in that block are met, the box is checked wi th a green check mark. The block headers have different information based on the block type. All the worksheets begin with a student information section followed by a Degree Progress bar . Student Information Section Contains basic student information such a s UID, the assigned advisor, major , minor, and concentration. Progress Bar Displays the percenta ge of the your requirement progress Degree Block Contains all the requirements for the your program. Individual requirements are hyperlinked to the section for that requirement/block until the requirement is complete. Requirement Block may include Major Block Will read undeci ded if a major has not been declared General Education Block Contains all the general education courses that have or have not been completed for graduation College Requirements Block ts Upper Division Block Required Upper Division hours grouped together. Other Blocks will display in certain degree program depending on the requirements for that program Fallthrough courses Block 4 Contains courses completed but not currently being used to fulfill requirements. This is the place where you will find electives or courses that may need to be used as substitutions, but are not yet documented. In - progress This section c ontains course s that are being currently taken or registered for in a fut ure term. See the term to differentiate. Exceptions Courses that have been used to substitute for a required course can be viewed in this area Legend Contains the symbols and definitions used for the UMdegree worksheet Complete Complete except for classes in - progress (T) Transfer Class Not Complete Nearly complete - see advisor @ Any course number Disclaimer Statement of the intended use of the UMdegree Worksheet. Registration Checklist Menu Option This section is a briefer overview of the student worksheet. 5 UMdegree What if The What if Tab allows you to create scenarios based upon what if you changed your major or degree path. Step 1) Select a Degree Step 2) Select an Academic Year (catalog) Step 3) Select a Major (major choice is narrow ed depending on choice of degree above) Step 4) Other criteria such as Minor, Concentration, and College can be added under the Choose Your Different Areas of Study section Step 5) Future courses related to this new major can also be added to the scenario under Choose Your Future Classes Step 6) Click Process What - If button (at top) What you will see next is the What If scenario. It will look just like the real work sheet e xcept this worksheet is directed towards the new major requirements. 6 UMdegree L ook Ahead Allows you to enter in future course and view a student worksheet with those courses applied. Look Ahead may also be used in a What If scenario (see What If Tab). To see an audit SHOWING COURSES FOR WHICH the student PLANS TO REGISTER IN FUTURE TERMS, use the form to enter the Subject code and Number of each anticipated course. Once you have created your list of courses, click on the Process New button. Look ahea d scenarios are not saved. 7 UMdegree Planner Shows a split screen of the worksheet (labeled Planner Worksheet) and an area (labeled Student Educational Planner) where courses needed to be take n in the future can be comp i l ed to create a program/degree completion plan. There is also a What If Option that will allow you to perform the What if scenario creation under the planner section. Plans made using planner can be saved. Plans can also be printed by using the print link at the upper right of the planner block. Planner Heading Section To use the Planner, first label your plan in the description field on the left side (Student Educational Planner). Use the drop down menu to choose the catalog (Academic Year) that you have chosen for graduation. Click the box next to Active Plan (to make the plan active). Planner - Semester by Semester Section Use the pull down menu on the first semester grid to identify the semester for which you are planning, usually next semester is first . You do not need to use the planner to identify 8 future courses. Once you have identified the semester, left click on a course you plan to take from the Planner Workshe et on the left side of the screen. Continue to hold down the mouse button and drag the course to a space in the term planner. Let up on the mouse button . The course will drop into the space, along with the credit hours for the course. Continue until you ha ve planned for as many semesters as you wish. Your ultimate goal should be to create a GRADUATION PLAN. Plan Notes Next to each semester grid, you will find a textbox labeled notes. Use this area to record questions for your advisor and notes to yourself . Your advisor may also put notes here, so make sure to read the notes carefully. There is also a large Notes section at the very bottom of the plan. Saving the Plan Save the plan by clicking Save Plan in the bottom right window. Now your advisor will b e able to review your plan. You may save as many plans as you like. Make sure you save your current plan before you start another plan. To start another plan, click Reload Form, or to save another version of the current plan, click Save As. Printing the Plan (College of Education advisors require that you print and bring with you to advising. ) Yo u may prin t a saved Plan using the print button at the top right corner of the plann er window. This will print the plan only. There is also a p rint button at the top of the larger p age. Use this button to print what you see (all of it.) 9 UMdegree GPA Calculators Graduation Calculator : The current GPA defaults. Enter the credits required and credits remaining. Click the Calculate button. The purpose of the Graduation Calculator is to give the student a general view of what average GPA they will need to achieve over their final "X" c redits in order to achieve the ir desired GPA. In some cases, this calculator will be useful to inform the student that the desired GPA is not possible to achieve (considering the number of credits remaining). In short, this calculator helps students to set long - term general goals. 10 Term Calculator : Current GPA and credits completed to date default. The current classes will default. Enter the credits if necessary and enter the projected grades. ( You can also add a cou rse the student might be considering but for which they Click the Calculate button. You can change the classes and the grades at any time and recalculate. The term calculator can be used for goal - setting as well as mapping paths t o avoid probation, achieve honors, etc. Advice Calculator 11 A simpler version than the Graduation Calculator, t he current GPA and the credits earned show up as default and the desired GPA can be calculated using the default information . Students should enter their desired GPA and click Calculate . Advice will be displayed depending on the desired GPA and the chances or unrealistic chances of meeting that goal. Note: Although the GPA and hours are already plugged in, these fields can be re vised. One example Another example of advice (after having altered the number of credits):