#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/special-collections/resources.php
Resources - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Special Collections Contact Us Resources Department Forms Home Libraries Special Collections Resources QuickSearch Articles Journal Titles Databases Search for books, articles, media, and more: Advanced QuickSearch | Classic Catalog | Research Guides | WorldCat Search most databases for articles: All Databases | Find Full Text from Citation | Research Guides Find Journals, Newspapers, and Magazines by Title or ISSN: Title begins with Title equals Title contains all words ISSN equals Browse Journals | Find Full Text from Citation | Research Guides Find a Database Using Title or Keywords: All Databases | Research Guides | Most Used Databases: Business Source Premier CINAHL Complete Comm. and Mass Media CQ Press Electronic Library Education Full Text JSTOR LexisNexis Academic OmniFile Full Text Mega Opposing Viewpoints Project MUSE PsycINFO Publications Books There are approximately 60,000 books on all aspects of regional history, natural history, and culture housed in Preservation and Special Collections. This department is also the home to the library’s most rare and special books that span a number of different subjects. Theses and Dissertations Preservation and Special Collections is home to an archival set of all theses and dissertations filed at the University of Memphis up until 2010. Theses and Dissertations filed after this time are housed on the university’s database: Current Research at the University of Memphis. Manuscripts A number of manuscript collection finding aids have been digitized and housed in the department's digital repository . Below are a sampling of these finding aids. Memphis Search for Meaning Committee records The Memphis Search for Meaning Committee records document the strike in Memphis by the city's sanitation workers from February to April 1968, the activities of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in Memphis prior to his assassination, and the aftermath. General George M. Jones Collection The collection consists primarily of photocopies of articles from various newspapers recounting the part played by the U.S. Army's George M. Jones (1911-1996) and his troops in the retaking of Corregidor, The Philippines, in 1945, and on Jones after his retirement. James K. Ferguson diary The collection comprises the Civil War diary of James K. Ferguson (d. 1864) of the 19th Arkansas Infantry Regiment, written between April 1862 and May 1863. Media Oral History Collection This collection contains over 3,000 interviews on many topics of local, regional, and national interest. Almost the entirety of the collection was produced by the Oral History Research Office of the University of Memphis’ History Department. Transcripts with releases can be found on the library’s Internet Archive site. Maps The Department of Preservation and Special Collections has over 1,000 maps housed in its collection. A portion of the maps are available through our online catalog and all maps can be found through the department’s map card catalog. Digital Resources Internet Archive This is a collection of digitized materials owned by the University of Memphis Libraries. It includes select materials from our Oral History holdings and other university publications including, school bulletins, annuals, and graduation programs. The Internet Archive is the digital repository for Lambuth University holdings owned by the University of Memphis Libraries. Digital Repository These collections are made up of materials that have been digitized from Preservation and Special Collections’ holdings. They cover topics of regional interest such as landmarks, local music, and African American history, community and culture. Special Collections Contact Us Resources Department Forms My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/24/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .