#http://www.memphis.edu/law/about/diversity.php
Diversity - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library About Administration &amp; Staff History Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity Home TIP Student Diversity Committee Scholarships Facilities Facilities Overview Virtual Tour Floor Plans Photo Gallery News &amp; Events Law School News Faculty News On Legal Grounds Blog ML-Memphis Law Magazine Events Calendar Communications Office Directions Contact Media Resource General Contact Info Faculty &amp; Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Home School of Law About Diversity DIVERSITY The Student Affairs Office of Diversity collaborates with a variety of law school offices and community groups to ensure a diverse and inclusive law school environment. These collaborations allow us to develop and implement initiatives that increase the access, admission, retention, and graduation of diverse students. Upon admission to law school, the Student Affairs Office of Diversity offers one-on-one counseling and support for students and student organizations and encourages each student to take advantage of available academic support and services. We define diversity broadly to include several aspects of human differences that contribute to the intellectual discourse and inclusive environment at the University of Memphis School of Law. Diversity may include, but is not limited to, socioeconomic status, race, ethnicity, disability, and more. Access Initiatives Our access initiatives and recruiting efforts work to ensure prospective students from historically underrepresented populations have access to information regarding the legal profession, the law school admission process, and financial aid opportunities. Access initiatives include collaboration with the Memphis Bar Association in coordinating the Summer Law Internship Program (SLIP). Memphis Law also coordinates an annual Diversity &amp; Pre-Law Day each February and offers the Tennessee Institute for Pre-Law (TIP) Program each summer. TIP is the state of Tennessee's only admission by performance program for diverse Tennessee or border county residents who show potential for law school success and bring diversity to the class. Student Organizations In 2013, Memphis Law initiated the Law Student Diversity Committee in an effort to increase awareness of diversity related legal issues, encourage community engagement, and cultivate a diverse and inclusive law school environment. This Committee provides an opportunity for students to engage in diversity training and coordinate diversity related programming throughout the year. Students also receive Pro Bono service hours for their participation. Many of our students also participate in student organizations with diversity related missions, such as: Association of Women Attorneys (AWA) Black Law Students Association (BLSA) Christian Legal Society Hispanic Law Student Association (HLSA) International Law Students Association (ILSA) OutLaw Recognition In recent years Memphis Law has garnered a number of awards and been recognized in a number of publications. One of the Top 5 Best Regional Law Schools for Black Students, according to Lawyers of Color Magazine. Ranked as a Best Bargain Law School for Black Students by Lawyers of Color Magazine. In 2013, Memphis Law was recognized by the Council on Legal Education Opportunity (CLEO) at its 45th Anniversary Celebration and honored as a member of the inaugural group of "William A. Blakey Diversity Pipeline Architects" for its access and diversity efforts. In 2014, Memphis Law was recognized by The National Jurist for significant gains in our diversity ranking. Lawyers of Color Magazine recognized our very own Prof. Alena Allen as one of the "50 Under 50" most influential minority law professors in the country. For more information on diversity at the University of Memphis School of Law, please contact the Student Affairs Office of Diversity at 901.678.2528 or visit the links below. Student Organizations Tennessee Institute for Pre-Law Scholarships About Administration &amp; Staff History Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity Home TIP Student Diversity Committee Scholarships Facilities Facilities Overview Virtual Tour Floor Plans Photo Gallery News &amp; Events Law School News Faculty News On Legal Grounds Blog ML-Memphis Law Magazine Events Calendar Communications Office Directions Contact Media Resource General Contact Info Faculty &amp; Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .