#http://www.memphis.edu/earthsciences/programs/graduate/gis_certificate.php
GIS Certificate - Earth Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Earth Sciences About Programs Faculty Research Student Resources Earth Sciences Programs Undergraduate About the BA Minor Courses Advising 4 year sequence Graduate About the Program Certificates Courses Application Process Application Graduate Coordinator Prospective Students GIS Certificate About Frequently Asked Questions Minor Home Earth Sciences Programs GIS Certificate GIS Certificate The Graduate Certificate in Geographic Information Systems is intended for students currently admitted to a graduate program at the University of Memphis or another university or students holding a graduate degree with an interest in using GIS as a problem-solving tool. Application Process Submit the following materials to Director of the GIS Certificate Program - Dr. Esra Ozdenerol : GIS Certificate Application Form Letter of intent Two letters of recommendation In addition, submit the required materials as described in Part I for Graduate Admissions. More information about the GIS Certificate Program can be found below. GIS Brochure Courses Courses in Geographic Information Science are mainly offered through the Department of Earth Sciences. Courses with GIS and Geographic Information Science components are also offered by departments across the campus. Total credits required for the certificate: 12 Description of required courses: ESCI 6515 Geographic Information Science 3 credits ESCI 6525 Analytical Geographic Information Science 3 credits Elective Course 3 credits ESCI 7998 Capstone GIS Project ELECTIVES: Total credits 3 Students are required to take 3 hours of electives. Brief descriptions of elective courses are listed. These electives could come from a variety of related fields with approval of the Certificate Program Committee. Description of possible elective courses and their web links: ESCI 6431 Urban Geography (3) ESCI 6443 Transportation Planning (3) ESCI 6502 Computer Mapping (3) ESCI 6511 Remote Sensing of the Environment (4) ESCI 6521 Quantitative Methods (3) ESCI 6531 Field Methods (3) ESCI 6610 Automation Process In GIS (3) ESCI 7320 Archeological Spatial Analysis (3) ESCI 7504-8504 Seminar in Geographic Information Science (3) ESCI 7613 GIS and Human Health (3) COMP 6001 Visual Basic (3) COMP 6011 Advanced Visual Basic (3) PLAN 7202 Land Use Planning (3) Earth Sciences Programs Undergraduate About the BA Minor Courses Advising 4 year sequence Graduate About the Program Certificates Courses Application Process Application Graduate Coordinator Prospective Students GIS Certificate About Frequently Asked Questions Minor Apply Now! Interested in a degree in Earth Sciences? Find out how to apply Department News Learn about faculty and student research, how to join Earth Sciences Club, Alumni support ad more... Field Activities Find out about admissions, prerequisites, location and more... Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .