#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/research/grants.php
grants - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact Research and External Funding Links External Funding Home Philosophy Research grants External Funding Understanding as a form of respect Year: 2015 Funding agency: Templeton Foundation Amount: $72k PI: Debes The dying animal Year: 2014-15 Funding agency: Templeton Foundation Amount: $82k PI: Blatti Anneliese Maier Research Award Year: 2012-17 Funding agency: Humboldt Foundation Amount: $278k PI: Gallagher The mental lives of disasters Year: 2014-16 Funding agency: University of Copenhagen Amount: $28k PI: Varga Phenomenology of anxiety and embodiment Year: 2014-16 Funding agency: Marie Curie Postdoctoral Fellowship, European Commission Research Amount: $320k PI: Trigg and Gallagher Pluralistic approaches to social cognition Year: 2015 Funding agency: Humboldt Feodor Lynen Postdoctoral Fellowship, Humboldt Foundation Amount: $39k PI: Fiebich and Gallagher Philosophy of Law reading group and speaker series Year: 2012 Funding agency: Koch Foundation Amount: $6k PI: Debes Space, Science and Spirituality: Studies of awe and wonder during space travel Year: 2011-14 Funding agency: Templeton Foundation Amount: $300k PI: Gallagher Towards an embodied science of intersubjectivity (TESIS), Initial Training Network Year: 2011-15 Funding agency: Marie Curie Actions, European Commission Research Amount: $583k PI: Gallagher Metaphor-Based Learning of Physics Concepts Through Whole-Body Interaction in a Mixed Reality Science Center Program Year: 2011-14 Funding Agency: NSF (DRL-1114621) Amount: $1.4m co-PI: Gallagher John Locke, Forced Labor and the Two Treatises of Government Year: 2011-12 Funding Agency: Fulbright US Scholar Program/University of Liverpool PI: Lawson Human-animal studies fellowship Year:2011 Funding Agency: Animals &amp; Society Institute (Wesleyan University) Amount: $3k PI: Blatti Embodied Virtues and Expertise Year:2010-12 Funding Agency: Australian Research Council (ARC) (DP1095109) Amount: $212k co-PI: Gallagher Human and Robotic Interaction: Social cues and behaviors in HR collaboration Year: 2010-12 Funding Agency: RCTA and General Dynamics. Grant # 64018180 Amount: $777k co-PI: Gallagher Conditions Guiding Coordinative and Adaptive Dynamics in Human Interaction Year: 2008-13 Funding Agency: National Science Foundation #0826825 Amount: $674k co-PI: Tollefsen Access and Diversity Grant Year: 2008-11 Funding Agency: Tennessee Board of Regents Amount: $93.5k PI: Tollefsen Research and External Funding Links External Funding Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .