#http://www.memphis.edu/ceri/study/
Study - CERI - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Center for Earthquake Research and Information About Study Research People Public News ESSSA Graduate Study at CERI Courses Geophysics Engineering Seismology Prospective Students Contact Us Graduate Admission and Support Application Guidelines CERI Graduate Application Degree Programs Graduate Student Handbook Financial Aid Dissertation Titles Home CERI Graduate Study at CERI Study at CERI research that appeals to you, in a collegial and supportive environment At CERI, we bring the added excitement of on-site data collection from two large seismic networks and a GPS network in the central part of the country, deployment of instruments following felt earthquakes, and frequent interaction with visitors from other institutions and government agencies. CERI is the place to be for a graduate student in geophysics! CERI offers two graduate degrees: Master of Science (M.S.) in Earth Sciences with a concentration in Geophysics, and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.), also in Earth Sciences with a concentration in Geophysics. What can you expect? You can select the research project you find most exciting, and a temporary committee will be assigned to you based upon your research preference. You 'll discuss potential research projects with all of our faculty members and select your favorite as well as your thesis/dissertation advisor. Graduate Studies in Geophysics at CERI All of our students are fully funded on Research Assistantships for the duration of their studies. We interact with the departments of Earth Sciences and Civil Engineering to provide exceptional research opportunities. Please visit our Research Areas page to find information about projects that interest you. We want our students working on projects that interest them the most and we strongly encourage students to work together. Where do our students go from here? Our M.S. and Ph.D. graduates have a high success rate obtaining jobs in the profession, including: Major oil companies Oil related industries University faculty members, staff members, and post docs Summer internships with major oil companies The strong background in geophysics that you will receive at CERI will make you an excellent candidate in the estimation of potential employers. CERI's excellent faculty and set of courses will provide you with a broad background in geophysics and facilitate employment in the geophysics profession of your choice. Join us and experience the excitement and comradery of a vibrant research center! Students interested in graduate studies in geology, geography or archaeology should visit the Department of Earth Sciences website. Financial Aid Full (12 month) Research Assistantships to CERI graduate students with a CERI faculty member as their primary thesis/dissertation advisor Palisades Geophysical Fellowship to an outstanding first year graduate student Please contact Michelle Smith for more information regarding financial support. Contact us here to request more information on graduate studies and research opportunities or call CERI at 901.678.4884. Graduate Study at CERI Courses Geophysics Engineering Seismology Prospective Students Contact Us Graduate Admission and Support Application Guidelines CERI Graduate Application Degree Programs Graduate Student Handbook Financial Aid Dissertation Titles Graduate Study at CERI Want to perform cutting edge research in a collegial and supportive environment? Seismic information View a list of Stations, Earthquake Catalogs, Monitoring Partners, and more... Earthquake Resources Recent Earthquakes, Education &amp; Outreach, Preparedness, Data Products, Media Products, and more... Contact Us For questions or more information, please contact the main office of CERI Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .