#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/ccfa/arch.php
ARCH Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning ARCH Courses ARCH (ARCHITECTURE) NOTE: The ARCH courses below require a $20 per credit hour materials fee. ARCH 6021 - Architecture Independent Study (1-3) Independent research in selected area of architecture faculty. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARCH 6022 - Architecture/Urbanism Seminar (3) Review of contemporary concepts in architectural design in the context of the urban environment; attitudes and phenomena making the particular culture of today and their impact on the built environment. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARCH 6023 - Urban Design Seminar (3) Comprehensive overview of significant issues of contemporary urban design; emphasis on experiential nature of cities and role of the architect in urban design. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARCH 6221 - Determinants of Modern Design (3) Significant works of architecture and urban design from 1900 to present; focus on Europe, the US, and non-Western world; examines architecture as a mode of cultural production in relation to its aesthetic. PREREQUISITE: ARCH 1211, 1212, or equivalent. ARCH 6231 - Issues in City Building (3) Review of historical and contemporary issues in architecture, urban design, planning, and real estate development within the context of urban environment. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ARCH 6421 - Sustainable Design (3) Principles of sustainable design as it relates to architecture and interior design. Topics include successful integration of sustainable design principles into building solutions; systematic evaluation of various design strategies in order to determine the most appropriate application. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ARCH 6430 - Internship in Architecture (1-6) Experiential learning to be achieved through an approved work assignment with a design firm, appropriate public or private entity, or a Department of Architecture faculty member. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ARCH 6451 - Site+Environmental Planning (3) Building sites; selection and utilization, including environmental influences; technical aspects such as zoning, contour lines, parking, ingress/egress, site drainage, building location, and sustainable design. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARCH 6517 - Design Collaborative Studio (3) (same as PLAN 4801-6801) Topics include appropriate products, building materials and techniques, sustainable design, site and environmental issues, codes and standards, and client needs. ARCH 6613 - Graphic Design for Architects (3) Advanced design, modelling, and analytical concepts using various computer software programs. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARCH 6811 - Parameters+Architecture Studio (3-6) Comprehensive overview of differences and relationships of history, technology, and culture in terms of impact on architecture and urban design; concepts of form generation and historic dimensions of architecture with respect to human settlement. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours when topic changes. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARCH 6812 - Furniture Design Studio (4) Examination of the historical precedents in modern style and the place of furniture in architecture; design philosophy, expression of materials, and construction. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARCH 6821 - Urban Design Studio (6) Comprehensive overview of significant issues of contemporary urban design; emphasis on experiential nature of cities, role of public policy, and genesis and development of urban building types. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARCH 6822 - Architecture+Urbanism Studio (6) Advanced design studio for identifying needs, resources, and operational methodologies across an expanded range of environmental scales; methods for identifying socio-cultural needs and coordination of complex variables, information, and resources, leading to conceptualization and development of design of components of the built environment. ARCH 6833 - Architectural Illustration (3) Basics of phenomenological theory as it applies to design communication; techniques of observational analysis; skills in applied color theory, perspective drawing, compositional refinement, and characteristics of materials and light; precedents of representation; graphic and verbal presentation. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ARCH 6841 - Studio Study Abroad (3-9) Comparative studies of cultures; relationships of culture to physical environment, organization of cities; history and behavior of inhabitants; analysis and documentation of elements of physical environment and relationship between buildings and urban fabric. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ARCH 7011 - Advanced Design Seminar I (3) Offered in conjunction with advanced studio problems in architecture; changing topics address a variety of critical and ideological constructs; emphasizes life-safety, building envelope and service systems, materials and assemblies. COREQUISITE: ARCH 7711. ARCH 7012 - Advanced Design Seminar II (3) Advanced studio problems in architecture; changing topics address a variety of critical and ideological constructs; emphasizes structural and environmental issues as design determinants. PREREQUISITE: ARCH 7711; COREQUISITE: ARCH 7712. ARCH 7013 - Advanced Design Seminar III (3) Offered in conjunction with advanced studio problems in architecture; changing topics address a variety of critical and ideological constructs; emphasizes comprehensive design. COREREQUISITE: ARCH 7713. ARCH 7021 - Arch Independent Study (1-3) Independent research in selected area of architecture faculty. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours in increments of 1, 2, or 3 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, of IP will be given. ARCH 7031 - Research and Training (1-3) Collaborative research with faculty in selected areas of architecture. The primary goal of the course is to learn about common research methods used in the design fields and to develop skills in written communication of such research. ARCH 7211 - Contemporary Arch Theory (3) Critical study of contemporary theoretical writings and related architectural production; contemporary issues informing current architectural discourse; the Modernist canon and "-isms" from the mid-twentieth century to the present. ARCH 7222 - Contemporary Architecture 2 (3) This course investigates the state of contemporary architecture as represented by significant practices, buildings, theories and criticims. Themes to be considered include the ethics and aesthetics of sustainability, contemporary urbanism and new approaches to materials and structure. ARCH 7232 - Advanced Issues City Building (3) Analysis and understanding of the qualities of the existing physical environment, natural and built, and social and economic issues within the context of the urban environment. Prerequisite: Permission of instructor. ARCH 7421 - Advanced Environmental Systems (3) Advanced principles, appropriate applications and performance of environmental systems; accoustical, lighting, climate modification systems, and energy use integrated with the building envelope. PREREQUISITE: ARCH 3421 (or approved equivalent) or permission of instructor. ARCH 7431 - Advanced Professional Practice (3) Principles of practice including communication skills, technical documentation, financial consideration, human behavior, client role, project management, practice management, leadership, leagal responsibilities, ethics and professional judgment, and community and social repsonsibility. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor ARCH 7711 - Advanced Design Studio 1 (6) Advanced studio problems in architecture; changing topics address a variety of critical and ideological constructs; emphasizes life-safety, building envelope and service systems, materials and assemblies. COREQUISITE: ARCH 7011. ARCH 7712 - Advanced Design Studio 2 (6) Advanced studio problems in architecture; changing topics address a variety of critical and ideological constructs; emphasizes structural and environmental issues as design determinants. PREREQUISITE: ARCH 7711, 7011; COREQUISITE: ARCH 7012. ARCH 7713 - Advanced Design Studio 3 (6) Advanced studio problems in architecture; changing topics address a variety of critical and ideological constructs; emphasizes comprehensive design. COREREQUISITE: ARCH 7013. ARCH 7833 - Experiential Drawing Studio (3) Phenomenological theory as it applies to design communication and pedagogy; narrative compositional refinement; precedents of representation; aesthetic theory of depiction and representation. Prerequisite: Permission of instructor ARCH 7930 - Architecture Research (3) Study in research in a specific area culminating in an integrating experience through individual project; research techniques, preliminary research, and conceptual development of an architectural project; site analysis and selection, case studies; development of thesis or professional project proposal. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor.Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ARCH 7995 - Professional Project Studio (6) Studio research problems in architecture; changing topics address a variety of critical and ideological constructs; emphasizes creative professional research and design in a course of study developed with architecture faculty based on the individual research interest of the student. PREREQUISITE: ARCH 7930, permission of instructor. ARCH 7996 - Architecture Thesis Studio (1-6) Emphasizes comprehensive integration of disciplinary and professional skills through formulation of architectural propositions grounded in theoretical, critical, and creative research. PREREQUISITE: ARCH 7930.Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .