#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/membership/email365.php
Email365 - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Membership Join Now Services &amp; Benefits List of Benefits Email365 Insurance Travel New Grads Students Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Membership Email365 Email365 As a University of Memphis Alumni Association member, you now have the benefit of retaining your @memphis.edu email address ! You may choose to keep using your University of Memphis Outlook inbox, or you can have your email redirected to an off-campus email account. To take advantage of this benefit, you must be a current Association member. Annual members will be given up to 30 days after their membership expires to renew before the email account is deactivated. If you have any questions, please contact the Alumni Association at alumniassociation@memphis.edu . To activate your Email365 account, you must first activate your myMemphis account (if you do not have a current Memphis username and password) by clicking here . Next complete these simple steps: 1. Visit iam.memphis.edu 2. Log in using your UUID and Password 3. Select: Enable “Email365” account access 4. Press the “ Confirm ” button. Please allow up to 20 minutes for email account activation. Visit ummail.memphis.edu to login to your Memphis.edu inbox. *Current University of Memphis employees: If you are involuntarily terminated from the University, you will no longer have access to your @memphis.edu email account. Please contact your HR representative regarding this policy. Forwarding your Email Use this option if you would like to redirect your email to an off-campus email service or if you would like to revert your email delivery back to the centralized campus email service. 1. Visit iam.memphis.edu 2. Log in using your UUID and Password. 3. Select: Modify Email Preferences 4. Select: Set Email Delivery Destination 5. Enter the email address to which you would like email to be forwarded. 6. Click Submit . Any new messages sent to your UofM e-mail account will automatically be re-directed to the address you specified. Please note that a copy will not be kept inside your UofM e-mail account. Not an Alumni Association member? JOIN NOW! After joining, your membership can take 1 or more business days to activate. Until it is activated, you will not be given the option in iAM to sign up for Email for Life. You can check your membership status by calling 800.678.TRAX. Troubleshooting I just renewed my Alumni Association membership and followed the instructions above, but I do not see the option to enable Email365. Please note: Once you join the Alumni Association, it can take two or more business days for your membership to process in the system. You will not be able to activate your email account until that time. I have signed up for Email365 but am unable to access my @memphis.edu account. How do I fix this? One possibility is that your password has expired. The University has enacted a policy that all passwords must be changed every 365 days. To change your password, go to iam.memphis.edu . Select "Forgot Password" and follow the steps to set a new password. If you are unable to remember the answers to your security questions, from iam.memphis.edu select "Initialize Your Account." You will then need to contact the Helpdesk at 901.678.8888 to receive your 10 digit code. Current University of Memphis employees: If you are involuntarily terminated from the University, you will no longer have access to your @memphis.edu email account. Please contact your HR representative regarding this policy. For additional technical problems, please contact the Helpdesk at 901.678.8888. Questions? Call the ITS Helpdesk at 901.678.8888. Membership Join Now Services &amp; Benefits List of Benefits Email365 Insurance Travel New Grads Students Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .