#http://www.memphis.edu/studentlife/voterinformation.php
Voter Information - Student Life / Dean of Students - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Student Life / Dean of Students About Behavioral Intervention Team Departments Carson Scholarship Religious Life Home Student Life / Dean of Students Voter Information Make your voice heard. Register and vote! Upcoming elections: Election Date Deadline to register to vote Memphis Municipal Elections October 8, 2015 September 8, 2015 Run-off (if needed) November 5, 2015 September 8, 2015 Primaries March 2016 (date to be determined) 30 days prior to election In order to vote, you must: Be a U.S. citizen Be at least 18 years old on or before Election Day Have not been convicted of a felony or, if convicted, had voting rights restored by court order or pardon Be a registered voter VOTER REGISTRATION INFORMATION TENNESSEE RESIDENTS: Application deadline to register to vote in TENNESSEE for any election is thirty (30) days prior to the election date. Tennessee will accept voter registration applications through September 8, 2015. Shelby County residents may scan the completed and SIGNED application and email it to VoteInfo@ShelbyCountyTN.gov . To register to vote in Tennessee you must complete a Voter Registration Application and mail or deliver it to your County Election Commission Office. Voter Registration Application is available online at . They are also available for pick-up on campus at the University Center Information Desk. Shelby County residents mail or deliver your Voter Registration Form to: Shelby County Election Commission Voter Mail Registration 980 Nixon Drive Memphis, TN 38134 To email your Voter Registration Form, please print, sign, scan, and email the form to VoteInfo@ShelbyCountyTN.gov . For residents of other Tennessee counties click to find your County Election Commission address. To check your registration status in Shelby County you may go to Voter Registration Lookup - . NOTE: If you registered to vote by email or mail you must vote in person in the first election after your registration becomes effective. This includes Early Voting. You CANNOT vote by absentee ballot. Voters who are already registered can make address changes at an early voting site. For further information, call 901.222.1200. For Absentee Voting information click . For questions or additional information please go to the Shelby County Election Commission website, or call them at 901.222.1200. NON-TENNESSEE Residents : For information on registering to vote in other states please CLICK HERE to find your state's information for voter registration. EARLY VOTING LOCATIONS* for Shelby County and Tennessee residents Early voting for Memphis Municipal Election – September 15 through October 3, 2015 at ALL Satellite Sites Locations are subject to change. To check early voting dates, times and locations click . *Tennessee residents who are registered to vote in any Tennessee county other than Shelby County should contact their resident county election commission office for early voter locations. To locate your county election commission office click . NOTE: There are NO voting locations on The University of Memphis campus . Early Voting Locations To Be Determined for Each Election by Election Commission Board Weekdays 10:00 am to 7:00 pm Saturdays 10:00 am to 4:00 pm 20 Days before every Election Day until 5 Days before every Election Day LOCATION NAME and ADDRESS ( Click on location name for map ) *** Closest to The University of Memphis campus. SHELBY COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION - 157 POPLAR AVE., SUITE 121 LOCATION NAME Abundant Grace Church LOCATION ADDRESS 1574 Shelby Drive, Memphis, TN 38116 Agri Center 7777 Walnut Grove Rd., Memphis, TN 38120 Anointed Temple Of Praise 3939 Riverdale Rd., Memphis, TN 38115 Bellevue Baptist Church 2000 Appling Rd. Memphis, TN 38016 *** Berclair Church of Christ 4536 Summer Ave., Memphis, TN 38122 Dave Wells Community Center 915 Chelsea Ave., Memphis, TN 38107 Glenview Community Center 1141 S. Barksdale St., Memphis, TN 38114 Greater Lewis Street Baptist Church 152 East Parkway N. Memphis, TN 38104 Greater Middle Baptist Church 4982 Knight Arnold Rd., Memphis, TN 38118 Mississippi Blvd. Christian Church 70 N. Bellevue Blvd. Memphis, TN 38104 Mt. Zion Baptist Church 60 S. Parkway E. Memphis, TN 38106 New Bethel Baptist Church - Family Life Center 7786 Poplar Pike, Germantown, TN 38138 Raleigh United Methodist Church 3295 Powers Rd., Memphis, TN 38128 Riverside Baptist Church 3560 S. Third St. Memphis, TN 38109 Shelby County Office Building 157 Poplar Ave. Memphis, TN 38103 Shiloh Baptist Church 3121 Range Line Rd., Memphis, TN 38127 *** White Station Church of Christ 1106 Colonial Rd., Memphis, TN 38117 *** Closest to The University of Memphis campus. Click to display map of the Early Voting Sites NOTE: There are NO voting locations on the University of Memphis campus . Student Handbook View or download the UofM Student Handbook Support for Nursing Mothers Information for individuals desiring on-campus space for purposes of nursing Voter Information Voter registration and location information for campus community Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .