#http://www.memphis.edu/mlche/pdfs/edvisits/issue_brief_ed_visitors_who_why_how_much_20150707.pdf
The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics Ju ly 2015 1 Research Brief Visitors to Hospital Emergency Ro om s : Who, Why, and How Much Do They Cost ? Cyril F. Chang, Ph.D. Introduction Hospital emergency departments (EDs) are a vital source of health care in the United States , providing over 136 million of total patient visits annually. 1 They are also a major source of inpatient admissions ; 11.9 percent of total ED visits in 2011 result ed in a hospital admission according to the latest statistics available from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). 2 Today, most hospital EDs are in stress as they struggle to provide prompt and high - quality treatment for patients with urgent and emergent medical problems while at the same time coping with many formidable challenges , including overcrowding, long waiting times, and unreimbursed services. 3 , 4 This Research Brief summarizes recent data on ED visits in the United States from a va riety of sources , including Medical Expenditure Panel Survey data released by the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) , 5 National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey data analyzed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC), 6 and data released by the National Center for Health Statistics. 7 The Brief focuses on the characteristics of ED visitors, the reasons for their visits, and the costs of their care. Who are most likely to visit hospital e mergency d epartment s (EDs) ? The use of hospital emergency department s is one of the topics frequently covered by various agencies under the U . S . Department of Visitors of Hospital ED 2 Health and Human Services. A ccording to national data summarized in a recent N ational Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) Data Brief , for example, analysts from the Center s for Disease Control and Prevention reported : 8 O lder adults aged 75 and ov er , infants younger than one year, women, non - Hispanic black persons, low - income persons, and persons with Medicaid coverage were mo re likely to have had at least one ED visit in a 12 - month period than were those in other age, gender, race, income, and insurance groups. Among the under - 65 population, the uninsured were no more likely than the insured to have had at least one ED visit in a 12 - month period. Furthermore, ED visits by the uninsured were no more likely to be triaged as table, with no resources anticipated except oral or topical medications, or prescriptions ) 9 than visits by those with privat e insurance or Medicaid coverage. Persons with Medicaid coverage were more likely to have had multiple visits to the ED in a 12 - month period than were those with private insurance and the uninsured. Persons with and without a usual source of medical care were equally likely to have had one or more ED visits in a 12 - month period. Why do people visit hospital EDs? Patients seek care at EDs for a wide variety of illnesses and injuries that rang e in severity from life threatening to emergent to minor and nonurgent. Of the 136.3 million ED patient visits reported to the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey in 2011, for example, 1.2 percent were triaged as needing immediate attention (Level 1 or the highest of five levels of triage status), 10.7 percent as emergent (Level 2), 42.3 percent as urgent (Level 3), 35.5 percent as semi - urgent (Level 4), and 8.0 percent as nonurgent (Level 5). 10 Triage status was not reported in the remaining 2.2 percent. Visitors of Hospital ED 3 What are the reasons for emergency room use? The results of a recent national survey of ED visitors by the CDC are informative for addressing this question. B ased on data for J anuary through June 2011 and adult ED visitors aged 18 - 64 whose last hospital visit in the past 12 months did not result in hospital ad mission , the CDC survey results show ed : 11 About 79.7 percent of surveyed adult s chose the answer ck of access to a significantly lower 66.0 percent of th os e surveyed chose the answer ser Other mo re common reasons for the last emergency room visit were: only a hospital could help (54.5%), the doctor's office was not open (48.0%), or there was no other place to go (46 .3%). Adults with public - health - plan coverage were twice as likely as those with no not open. Uninsured adults were more likely than those with private health insurance or a p ublic health plan to visit the emergency room due to having no other place to go. Adults living outside a metropolitan statistical area (MSA) were more likely office was not ope n. Adults with unmet medical need s were less likely than adults without unmet need s and more likely to visit because they had no other place to go. How much did ED care cost? According to the most recent statistics reported by the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), in 2012: 12 Visitors of Hospital ED 4 About 13.0 percent of the total U . S . population had an expense for ED services, with an average amount of $1,390 per person and a median of $713. Total expenditures for ER services were $55,878,000 , or 4.14 percent of total national health care expenditures of $1.351 trillion. Private insurance plans paid 47.1 percent of total expenditures for ED services , while Medicare and Med icaid paid 15.7 percent and 12.2 percent, respectively . Out - of - pocket payments represented 12.4 percent of total ED expenses in 2012. Those with no health insurance, while represent ing 12.7 percent of the total U.S. population in 2012, accounted for 9.4 percent of total reported ED expenses. The non - elderly under - 65 population with public insurance coverage (mostly Medicaid patients), on the other hand, represented 16.2 percent of the total U.S. population and accounted for 16.0 percent of total ED exp enses in 2012. Concluding Observations As originally envisioned, the ostensible purpose of hospital EDs is to be the provider of promp t, life - saving care for patients with urgent and emergent medical problems. But , the reality on the ground today is that hospital EDs must balance their basic mission against a host of other demands placed on them that range from providing urgent and after - hour s care for all patients to serving as the safety - net providers for the uninsured and to meeting local public health needs , such as surveillance of seasonal and contagious diseases and disaster preparedness . It is a health system challenge and a vital h ealth reform agenda both nationally and locally to improve the functioning of hospital EDs by increasing the quality o f life - saving care while reducing overcrowding and long wait lines , preventable visits for non - urgent conditions , and the high costs of care. Visitors of Hospital ED 5 References 1 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). CDC Faststats Homepage. - department.htm . 2 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey: 2011 Emergency Department Summary Tables. Online accessed June 5, 2015 , at: . gov/nchs/data/ahcd/nhamcs_emergency/2011_ed_web_tables.pdf . 3 Institute of Medicine (IOM) . Hospital - Based Emergency Care: At the Breaking Point. Washington, DC: National Academy Press, June 2006a. 4 Institute of Medicine (IOM) . Emergency Care for Children: Growing Pains . Washington, DC: National Academy Press, June 2006b. 5 AHRQ, Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS). Online accessed June 22, 2015 , at: ent=0& tableSeries=1&year= - 1&SearchMethod=1&Action=Search . 6 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey: 2011 Emergency Department Summary Tables, Table 7. Online accessed June 5, 2015 , at: .gov/nchs/data/ahcd/nhamcs_emergency/2011_ed_web_tables.pdf . 7 Garcia , T . C . , A. B. Bernstein, and M. A. Bush . Emergency D epartment V isitors and V isits: Who U sed the E mergency R oom in 2007? NCHS data brief, No 38. Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics. 2010. 8 Ibid . 9 Gilboy , N ., T. Tanabe, D. Travers, and A. M. Rosenau. Emergency Severity Index (ESI): A Triage Tool for Emer gency Department Care, Version 4. Implementation Handbook 2012 Edition . AHRQ Publication No. 12 - 0014. Rockville, MD : Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality , November 2011. 10 Centers for Disease Control and Prev ention (CDC). National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey: 2011 Emergency Dep artment Summary Tables. 11 Gindi , R . M . , R. A. Cohen, and W. K. Kirzinger. Emergency R oom U se A mong A dults A ged 18 64: Early R elease of E stimates from the National Health Interview Survey, January June 2011. National Center for Health Statistics, May 2012. Online available at : . 12 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ). Emergency Room Se rvices - Mean and Median Expenses P er Person with Expense and Distribution of Expenses by Source of Payment: United States, 2012. Medical Expenditure Panel Survey Household Component Data. Generated interactively (May 30, 2015) . Visitors of Hospital ED 6 Author Information: Dr. Cyril F. Chang is a Professor of Economics and the Director of the Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics at the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, The University of Memphis. E - mail: cch ang@memphis.edu . Contact Information: Dr. Cyril F. Chang Professor of Economics and Director Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics Fogelman College of Business and Economics The University of Memphis Memphis, Tennessee 38152 Phone: 901 - 678 - 3565 Fax: 901 - 678 - 2685 E - mail: cchang@memphis.edu