#http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/grad_aud_req.php
Graduate Audition Requirements - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Home Music Future Students Graduate Audition Requirements Audition Requirements General Information An audition is required for graduate applicants seeking admission in performance, conducting, pedagogy, and jazz. Once accepted into a program, applicants will take proficiency examinations in music history and music theory prior to the first week of classes. Basic audition instructions: Be prepared to perform two pieces of music on your primary instrument which are contrasting in style and showcase your musical and technical abilities. You will be asked to play scales and to sight read. AREA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION The following information has been provided by School of Music divisions to further assist students with their audition preparation. Bassoon Audition Requirements and Repertoire Cello Audition Repertoire Choral Conducting Proficiencies Clarinet Audition Requirements and Repertoire Classical Guitar Double Bass Audition Repertoire Flute Audition Requirements Percussion Audition Information Piano Audition Requirements Trumpet Audition Requirements Tuba Audition Requirements Voice Division Audition and Class Information Viola Audition Requirements Violin Audition Requirements BASSOON AUDITION REQUIREMENTS AND REPERTOIRE A selection from major works such as the Mozart Concerto, the Saint-Saens Sonata, the Weber Concerto in F Major, the Weber Andante and Rondo, or the Hummel ConcertoMajor and minor scales Two orchestral excerpts in addition to the following: Mozart-Marriage of Figaro Overture, Ravel-Bolero, and Tchaikovsky-Symphony No..4, Mvt. 2. CELLO AUDITION REPERTOIRE Master of Music An outer movement of a standard concerto Two contrasting movements from one of Bach's Suites for solo cello An etude by Popper or Piatti Doctor of Musical Arts A complete concerto A complete Bach Suite for solo cello An additional work of contrasting style CHORAL CONDUCTING PROFICIENCIES AND REQUIREMENTS Master of Music The Master of Music in Choral Conducting represents an advanced level of knowledge and skill in the area of conducting. Applicants must have an undergraduate degree in either Vocal Performance or Music Education, with an emphasis in choral conducting. In a few, rare instances, applicants may enter with a bachelor's degree in a related area of music, but only through clear demonstrated competence in the area of conducting. 45-minute video of a recent rehearsalVideo of a recent public performanceParticipation in an on-campus interview which includes a conducting audition, a sight-singing and pitch recognition examination, a piano skills audition, a vocal diction examination and a personal interview A video audition may be accepted in cases of international students or those with similar travel difficulties. In addition, prospective students must be accepted by the University of Memphis and by the School of Music to be accepted into the Master of Music degree program in choral conducting. Doctor of Musical Arts The Doctor of Musical Arts in Choral Conducting represents an advanced level of knowledge and skill in the area of conducting. Applicants must have a master's degree in either performance or music education, with a specialty in conducting. In a few, rare instances, applicants may enter with a master's degree in a related area, but only through clear demonstrated competence in the area of conducting. 45-minute video of a recent rehearsalvideo of a recent public performanceParticipation in an on-campus interview which includes a conducting audition, a sight-singing and pitch recognition examination, a piano skills audition, a vocal diction examination and a personal interview A video audition may be accepted in cases of international students or those with similar travel difficulties. In addition, prospective students must be accepted by the University of Memphis and by the School of Music to be accepted into the Doctor of Musical Arts degree program in choral conducting. For more information, please contact: Dr. Lawrence Edwards, Director of Choral Activities, 901.678.3767, edwards@memphis.edu . CLARINET AUDITION REQUIREMENTS AND REPERTOIRE Master of Music/Doctor of Musical Arts Submit repertoire list Perform contrasting movements of a sonata or concerto (eg. Mozart or Nielsen) Demonstrate an awareness of orchestral and band excerpts Major and minor scales played by memorySight-reading and pitch recognition All students read music at sight and are tested for pitch recognition Students may send a preliminary audio or video, however, these do not stand in lieu of a live audition. CLASSICAL GUITAR AUDITION INFORMATION AND REPERTOIRE Master of Music Major and Minor Segovia or Shearer scales, three octaves Two contrasting movements from one of Bach's Sonatas, Suites, or Partitas, memorized Two additional works of contrasting style, memorized Doctor of Musical Arts A complete Bach Suite, Sonata, or Partita, memorized A movement of a Concerto, memorized A work from the 20th or 21st Century, memorized DOUBLE BASS AUDITION REPERTOIRE Master of Music Two contrasting movements of a standard sonata or concerto One movement of a work from an additional style period Doctor of Musical Arts A complete concerto Two contrasting movements from one of Bach's Suites for solo cello FLUTE AUDITION REQUIREMENTS Graduate applicant (M.M. and D.M.A.): One sonata by J.S. Bach First and second movements of Mozart's Concerto in G or D major. One full work from the 20th or 21st century Three orchestral excerpts Sight-reading PERCUSSION AUDITION REQUIREMENTS Master of Music A four-timpani piece A four-mallet marimba piece A Delecluse snare drum solo A multiple percussion piece Sight reading PIANO AUDITION REQUIREMENTS Master of Music/Piano Performance Three works contrasting in tempo and style taken from the standard concert repertoire; may include a Bach Partita, a Chopin Impromptu/Etude/Ballade Scherzo, a Beethoven Sonata (excluding the Opus 14's and Opus 49's), a Prokofiev Sonata, an Etude by Debussy, Stravinsky, Scriabin Master of Music/Piano Pedagogy Three works in contrasting tempo and style taken from the standard teaching repertoire; may include a Bach Invention, a Scarlatti Sonata, Chopin Nocturne/ Impromptu/Preludes, first movement of a Mozart or Haydn Sonata, Debussy Prelude Doctor of Musical Arts/Piano Performance A full recital program of standard concert repertoire representing the four stylistic periods Doctor of Musical Arts/Collaborative Piano Solo work, eg. Chopin Ballade, complete Beethoven Sonata An instrumental duo sonata, eg. Spring Sonata, Faure SonataA complete song cycle, eg. Dichterliebe A concert aria or major aria from an opera Sight-reading Transposition at sight TRUMPET AUDITION REQUIREMENTS Two or three Etudes/Solos of contrasting character should be prepared which best demonstrate your sound, range, and technique. For questions or assistance please email: Dr. David Spencer at dspencer@memphis.edu. TUBA AUDITION REQUIREMENTS Master of Music/Doctor of Musical Arts All graduate level applicants should be able to demonstrate both the bass and contrabass tubas at the advanced level. Melodious etude Technical etude 2-3 solos from the standard repertoire Orchestral and band excerpts of your choice Sight-reading VOICE DIVISION Master of Music One Early Italian Art Song or Aria (before 1750) One German Lied One French Mélodie One Operatic Aria One Aria from Oratorio One 20th or 21st Century English Art Song Songs are to be performed from memory except for the oratorio aria which may be performed with music. The audition committee will select repertoire to be heard from the prepared material above. Applicants should submit undergraduate recital programs and/or a representative repertoire list of undergraduate literature performed by the applicant. Doctor of Musical Arts One Early Italian Art Song or Aria (before 1750) One German Lied One French Mélodie One Operatic Aria One Aria from Oratorio One 20th or 21st Century English Art Song Songs are to be performed from memory except for the oratorio aria which may be performed with music. Selections must be representative of the following stylistic periods: Baroque, Classical, Romantic, and 20th Century. The performance must demonstrate a high degree of artistic and technical achievement. Applicants must submit recital programs and a representative repertoire list. VIOLA AUDITION REPERTOIRE Master of Music Two contrasting movements from one of Bach's Suites for solo viola A movement from one of the major viola concertos such as Bartok, Walton, or Hindemith Der Schwanendreher An additional work of contrasting style Doctor of Musical Arts A complete Bach Suite for solo viola A movement from one of the major viola concertos such as Bartok, Walton, or Hindemith Der Schwanendreher An additional work of contrasting style VIOLIN AUDITION REPERTOIRE Master of Music An outer movement of a standard concerto from the 19th or 20th century Two contrasting movements of one of Bach's Sonatas or Partitas for solo violin An additional work of contrasting style Doctor of Musical Arts An outer movement of a standard concerto from the 19th or 20th century A complete Bach Sonata or Partita for solo violin The first movement of a Mozart concerto Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .