#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/research/phenomenology-philmind.php
phenomenology-philmind - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact Research and External Funding Links External Funding Home Philosophy Research phenomenology-philmind Phenomenology - Philosophy of Mind - Cognitive Science Faculty and students conduct ongoing interdisciplinary research at the intersection of phenomenology, philosophy of mind, and cognitive science. Current research includes projects in phenomenology and developmental psychology; simulation theory; music cognition; the habitual body, the anxious body, pluralist approaches to social cognition, material engagement theory, empathy in non-human animals, philosophy of psychiatry and psychopathology, collective agency. Faculty Blatti, Gallagher, Nenon, Tiensen, Tollefsen, Varga Recent seminars Merleau-Ponty (2015); Self and self-consciousnes (2014); Intersubjectivity (2013) PhD Students Benjamin Aguda, Mike Butler, Tailer Ransom, Kevin Ryan, Sarah Vincent (PhD 2015), Stefano Vincini Postdocs Dylan Trigg (Marie Curie Postdoc 2014-2016), Anika Fiebich (Humboldt Feodor-Lynen Fellowship, 2015) Visiting faculty, postdocs, and lecturers 2015-16: Helen Steward (Professor, Leeds University) Michael Kirchoff (Lecturer, Wollongong) James Morley (Professor of Psychology, Ramapo) David Morris (Professor, Concordia, Montreal) Albert Newen (Professor, Ruhr U. Bochum) Dorothée Legrand (Researcher, Husserl Archives, Paris) 2014-15: Gry Ardal Printzlau (University of Copenhagen - Postdoctoral researcher, Velux Foundation project Self-understanding and Self-alienation: Existential Hermeneutics and Psychopathology) Beata Stawarska (Professor, University of Oregon, Eugene) 2013-14: Anika Fiebich (Ruhr U. Bochum - postdoc) Marek Pokropski (University of Warsaw - postdoc) Tetsuyo Kono (Professor, Tokyo) Visiting students Susana Ramiriz (U. Mexico, 2015) Kristian Moltke Martiny (University of Copenhagen, and the Helene Elsass Center, 2014) Zuzanna Rucinska (Philosophy, University of Hertfordshire, UK, 2014) - Embodied and enactive cognition approaches to pretend play Simona Agnello (University of Palermo, Italy, 2014). Self-consciousness and Cognitive processes, and pragmatism Miguel Angel. (Cognitive Science, U.N.A.M. Mexico, 2014) Katsunori Miyahari (Tokyo, 2014) Recent publications and work in progress Blatti, S. 2016. Essays on Animalism: Persons, Animals, and Identity, edited + introduction with Paul Snowdon (Oxford University Press, 2016). Blatti, S. 2016. Headhunters. In Essays on Animalism: Persons, Animals, and Identity, eds. Stephan Blatti and Paul Snowdon (Oxford University Press). Blatti, S. (ed.), 2014. Special issue: The Lives of Human Animals, The Southern Journal of Philosophy 52. Blatti, S. 2014. Animalism . Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, ed. Ed Zalta. Gallagher, S. (ed). 2015. Special Issue: Models of the Mind. The Southern Journal of Philosophy. S. Gallagher, B. Janz, L. Reinerman, P. Bockelman, and J. Trempler. (2015). A Neurophenomenology of Awe and Wonder: Towards a Non-reductionist Cognitive Science. London: Palgrave-Macmillan. Newen, A., De Bruin, L. and Gallagher, S. (in progress). Oxford Handbook of Cognition: Embodied, Enactive, Extended. Oxford: Oxford University Press. Fiebich, A., Gallagher, S. and Hutto, D. (in press). Varieties of social understanding in ontogeny: The role of social interaction. In J. Kiverstein (ed). Routledge Handbook of Philosophy of the Social Mind. London: Routledge (April/June 2015). Gallagher, S. and T. Ransom (in press). Artifacting minds: Material Engagement Theory and joint action. In C. Tewes (ed.), Embodiment in Evolution and Culture. Berlin: de Gruyter. Gallagher, S. 2015. Reuse and body-formatted representations in simulation theory. Cognitive Systems Research. doi: 10.1016/j.cogsys.2015.07.003 Gallagher, S. and Lindgren, R. 2015. Enactive metaphors: Learning through full-body engagement. Educational Psychology Review 27 (3): 391-404 (10.1007/s10648-015-9327-1) Gallagher, S. 2015. Doing the math: Calculating the role of evolution and enculturation in the origins of mathematical reasoning. Progress in Biophysics and Molecular Biology. Gallagher, S. 2015. The new hybrids theories of social cognition. Consciousness and Cognition. Gallagher, S. and Aguda, B. 2015. The embodied Phenomenology of phenomenology. Journal of Consciousness Studies 22(3-4): 93-107 Gallagher, S. and Varga, S. 2015. Social cognition and psychopathology: a critical overview. World Psychiatry 14 (1): 5-14. DOI 10.1002/wps.20173 Gallagher, S. and Varga, S. 2015. Conceptual issues in autism spectrum disorders. Current Opinion in Psychiatry 28. doi: 10.1097/YCO.0000000000000142 Gallagher, S. and González, J. 2014. Time, altered states of consciousness, and science. Cosmology 18: 246-262.Invited paper for Special issue ed. by Menas Kafatos and Deepak Chopra Gallagher, S. 2014. The cruel and unusual phenomenology of solitary confinement. Frontiers in Psychology 5: 585. (doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00585) Gallagher, S. and Varga, S. 2014. Social constraints on the direct perception of emotions and intentions. Topoi 33 (1): 185-199DOI 10.1007/s11245-013-9203-x Parnas, J. and Gallagher, S. 2015. Phenomenology and the interpretation of psychopathological experience. In L. Kirmayer, R. Lemelson, and C. Cummings (eds.), Revisioning Psychiatry Integrating Biological, Clinical and Cultural Perspectives (65-80).Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Tollefsen, D. 2015. Groups as Agents . Polity Press. Tollefsen, D., Kruez, R. &amp; Dale, R. (in press) Flavors of togetherness: experimental philosophy and theories of joint action. In J. Knobe &amp; S. Nichols Oxford Studies in Experimental Philosophy, Oxford University Press: Oxford. Tollefsen, D. 2014. A dynamic theory of shared intention. In S. Chant &amp; F. Hindriks (Eds.) From Individual to Collective Intentionality: New Essays, Oxford University Press: Oxford. Tollefsen, D., Dale, R. &amp; Paxton, A. 2013. Alignment, transactive memory, and collective cognitive systems. Review of Philosophy and Psychology 4 (1): 49-64. Tollefsen, D., Dale, R. and Olsen, L. 2013. The devil's in the details: mental institutions and proper engagement. In Merritt, M. and Varga, S. (Eds.) Cognitive Systems Research, 25-26; pp. 35-39. Trigg, Dylan. 2014. The Thing: A Phenomenology of Horror. Washington DC: Zero Books. Trigg, Dylan. 2016. Topophobia: a Phenomenology of Anxiety (Forthcoming: London: Bloomsbury) Trigg, D. and Legrand, D. 2016. Unconscious Between Phenomenology and Psychoanalysis (Forthcoming: Heidelberg: Springer) Varga, S. (2015) "Self-Deception, Self-Knowledge and Autobiography", in Cowley, Christopher (ed.) The Philosophy of Autobiography, Chicago: University of Chicago Press. Varga, S (2014) "Self, Narrative and the Culture of Therapy", Philosophy, Psychiatry, &amp; Psychology. 21 (2): 161-163. Stoyanov, D, Borgwardt, S &amp; Varga, S. (2014) "The problem of translational validity across neuroscience and psychiatry", Zachar, P, Stoyanov, D, et al (ed.) Alternative perspectives on psychiatric validation, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Ratcliffe, M, Stephan, A. &amp; Varga, S. (2014) Editorial, Special Issue: The Phenomenology of Depression, Journal of Consciousness Studies 20 (7-8), 10-14. Varga, S. (2014) "Cognition, Representations and Embodied Emotions: Investigating Cognitive Theory" Erkenntnis 79 (1): 165-190. Varga, S. (2011) Authenticity as an Ethical Ideal, Routledge: New York. Varga, S. (2015) Naturalism, Interpretation and Mental Disorder, Oxford: Oxford University Press. Varga, S. &amp; Slaby, J. (eds.) (2012) Philosophy of Psychiatry, Edited Special Issue of Deutsche Zeitschrift für Philosophie. Merritt, M. &amp; Varga, S. (eds.) (2013) Socially Extended Mind, Edited Special Issue of Cognitive Systems Research. Vincini, S. and Gallagher, S. (in press). Non- and hypo-egoic phenomenology. In K. Brown and M. Leary (eds.), Oxford Handbook of Hypo-egoic Phenomena. Oxford: OUP. Vincini, S. and Gallagher, S. 2015. Phenomenology (philosophical). In Robin Cautin and Scott Lilienfeld (eds.), The Encyclopedia of Clinical Psychology. Wiley-Blackwell. DOI: 10.1002/9781118625392.wbecp330. pp. 1-9. Media, popular press, videos Gallagher, S. 2015. Invasion of the body snatchers: How embodied cognition is being de-radicalized. The Philosophers' Magazine. Invasion_of_the_body_snatchers_How_embodied_cognition_is_being_disembodied Gallagher, S. 2015. Hands. Television documentary serial, aired on the Croatian Public Television, including videotaped interview with Shaun Gallagher. (30 September 2015). Gallagher, S. 2015. The awesomeness of space. Slate Magazine. . Gallagher, S. 2014. Varieties of embodied cognition. Collaboration with Miranda Anderson, College of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Edinburgh, on the History of Distributed Cognition Project. Creation of video to introduce scholars in literary studies to concepts of embodied cognition. Tollefsen D. 2014. Group minds. Collaboration with Miranda Anderson, College of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Edinburgh, on the History of Distributed Cognition Project. Creation of video to introduce scholars in literary studies to concepts of embodied cognition. Research and External Funding Links External Funding Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .