#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/provost/facawards/
Faculty Awards - Academic Affairs - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Academic Affairs About Provost Resources Academic Affairs Units Provost CHC Partnership Faculty Spotlight Chairs of Excellence University Professorships Awards Program About Awards Programs Academic Affairs Nominations Academic Affairs Winners Faculty Awards Faculty Award Winners Home Academic Affairs Provost Faculty Awards The University of Memphis and the Office of the Provost are proud to offer the following awards. Click on each award to learn more about it and how to nominate someone or how to apply. Briggs Excellence in Teaching Award Alumni Association Distinguished Advising Award Alumni Association Distinguished Research Award Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award Faculty Excellence in Engaged Scholarship Honorary Degrees Award details Briggs Excellence in Teaching Award The award was established by the Thomas W. Briggs Foundation and recognizes outstanding educators for their positive impact on undergraduate teaching. Two awards, in the amount of $7,500 each, are presented at the Faculty Awards Luncheon in the Spring of each academic year. As requested by the Thomas W. Briggs Foundation, the selection committee will be comprised of University of Memphis faculty, recent alumni and a representative of the Briggs Foundation. The administration of the award is coordinated with the assistance of the Office of the Vice Provost for Assessment, Institutional Research &amp; Reporting. Previous recipients of this award have demonstrated a willingness to teach students who are all types of learners, a personal concern for their students, enthusiasm for their disciplines, and a willingness to serve as leaders in innovation and teaching excellence in their departments. Past recipients are: 1996-97 Dr. Kevin Hagopian &amp; Dr. Phillip Kolbe 1997-98 Dr. Thomas Caplinger &amp; Dr. Ruthbeth Finerman 1998-99 Dr. Jack Grubaugh &amp; Dr. Mark Timmons 1999-00 Dr. Julia Heath &amp; Dr. Thomas D. Mason 2000-01 Ms. Candace Justice &amp; Dr. Robert Marchini 2001-02 Dr. Melvin Beck &amp; Dr. Charles Camp 2002-03 Dr. Nele Hempel &amp; Dr. Kantaylieniere Y. Hill-Clarke 2003-04 Dr. Charles Biggers &amp; Mr. Stephen Hancock 2004-05 Dr. William Jermann &amp; Dr. John Hanneken 2005-06 Dr. Lawrette Axley &amp; Dr. Robert Frankle 2006-07 Ms. Margaret A. Quinn &amp; Dr. Dennis Laumann 2007-08 Dr. Nancy Mardis &amp; Dr. Joe Hayden 2008-09 Dr. Anna Bess Sorin &amp; Dr. Fred Albertson 2009-10 Dr. Donald Franceschetti &amp; Dr. Irvin Tankersley 2010-11 Ms. Charlene Spiceland &amp; Dr. John Haddock 2011-12 Dr. Mark Freilich &amp; Mr. Kriangsiri Milasri 2012-13 Dr. Angela G. Grant &amp; Mr. Leonard A. Jackson 2013-14 Mr. Jacob Allen &amp; Ms. Nataliya Doroshenko 2014-15 Dr. Douglas Campbell &amp; Dr. Shirleatha Lee How to Apply Nominees must be full-time faculty members at the University of Memphis and currently must be teaching primarily undergraduate level courses. The nominee must have a demonstrated record of exceptional teaching skills at the undergraduate level, especially in the last three years. Tenure is not required. Previous recipients are not eligible for nomination. You may download a nomination form by clicking here. Please send your completed nomination form and statement in one of the following formats to Jan Brownlee. Mail Attn: Jan Brownlee Office of the Provost University of Memphis 360 Administration Building Memphis, TN 38152 Email Documents should be in PDF format with "Briggs Award" in the subject line Send to jbrownle@memphis.edu Distinguished Advising Award The Alumni Association offers two Distinguished Advising Awards, one for faculty and one for professional advisors. The Award will be given at the Spring Faculty Convocation. The Award will be accompanied by a stipend equal to that given for the University's Distinguished Teaching Award. The recommendation is that one faculty and one professional advisor award be given annually. The Selection Committee will be appointed by the Provost and will consist of two faculty, two professional staff, two administrators, the Director of Academic Advising, and a student representative. How to Apply Nominations will be solicited through various media (i.e. posters, the Helmsman, email, etc.) during the Fall semester. Both faculty and professional advisors must receive nominations from faculty/administrators and students/former students or alumni/alumnae. Nominees must have completed at least five years of service at the University of Memphis and are at least in their sixth year of service at the time of receiving the award. Faculty may only receive the award once. Professional advisors may receive the award twice. For eligibility the second time, at least three complete years must have passed since the first Award was received (i.e. if the nominee first received the Award in Spring 2010, he or she would not be eligible for a second Award until Spring 2014). Once a pool of qualified nominees has been established, candidates will be asked to provide supporting letters and a dossier. The letters are solicited confidential letters with a minimum of one from each of the following groups: 1. Present and former advisees. 2. Faculty/professional staff. 3. Supervisors/administrators. The dossier should support the nomination by showing that the nominee has met appropriate criteria from the Advising Award Criteria list. The Advising Award Criteria List includes: Undergraduate Student Contact frequency of contact with undergraduate advisees availability to advisees meeting advisees in a variety of settings External Evaluation advisee evaluations (summary data) perception by colleague of candidate's advising skills institutional recognition of candidate for advising evidence of student success rate Interpersonal Skills caring attitude toward advisees intrusive behavior which builds strong relationships with advisees Advising Skills appropriate referral activity use of appropriate information sources monitoring of student progress mastery of institutional regulations, policies, and procedures ability to engage in developmental advising Evidence of Professional Development and Service in Advising attendance at advisor development programs participation in advisor development programs support of advisor development programs perception of candidate as an advising resource Distinguished Research and Creative Activity Award The Alumni Association may make up to five awards annually to faculty who have brought honor and recognition to the University through their research or creative activities. The categories include: Distinguished Achievement in the Creative Arts Distinguished Research in the Humanities Distinguished Research in the Social Sciences Distinguished Research in Science, Engineering, and Mathematics Distinguished Research in Engaged Scholarship How to Apply Candidates must have been employed full-time by the University of Memphis for at least five academic years prior to the semester of their application or nomination. They may apply for the award or be nominated by any full-time faculty or staff member. Former award winners may not be re-nominated within seven years of the first awards and may not receive the award more than twice. Those wishing to be considered must submit a resume with a complete list of publications, a narrative summary of research aims and achievements, and at least three external letters from distinguished referees. A $2000 honorarium and a plaque are presented to each recipient at the annual Faculty Convocation. Further information is available from the Vice President for Research. Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award To donate to the Sparks Award, click here . The Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award is the highest distinction given to a faculty member by the University. The award is given annually to one faculty member who has made outstanding and sustained contributions to scholarly-creative activity, teaching, and service, bringing honor and recognition to the University. The award is given by the University of Memphis Board of Visitors and includes a $20,000 cash prize and a commemorative crystal. A University committee composed of nine faculty members will screen nominations and identify three finalists. The recipient will then be chosen from among these finalists by a selection committee composed of three members of the Board of Visitors. The award will be presented to the recipient at the Spring Faculty Convocation. Previous recipients include: 2014-15 Albert Okunade, Professor, Department of Economics 2013-14 Kenneth Ward, Professor, School of Public Health 2012-13 Gladius Lewis, Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering 2011-12 Dipankar Dasgupta, Professor, Computer Science 2010-11 Thomas K. Fagan, Professor, Psychology 2009-10 Erno Lindner, Professor, Biomedical Engineering 2008-09 Robyn Cox, Professor, Audiology &amp; Speech-Language Pathology 2007-08 Ralph Albanese, Chair, Foreign Languages &amp; Literatures 2006-07 David Evans, Professor, Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music 2005-06 Jerome A. Goldstein, Professor, Mathematical Sciences 2004-05 David L. Appleby, Professor, Communication 2003-04 Cyril F. Chang, Professor, Economics 2002-03 Linda A. Bennett, Associate Dean of Graduate Studies, A&amp;S 2001-02 Robert A. Neimeyer, Professor, Psychology 2000-01 Richard H. Schelp, Professor, Mathematical Sciences 1999-00 Lily Afshar, Associate Professor, Music 1998-99 Arthur C. Graesser, Professor, Psychology 1997-98 Steven J. Ross, Professor, Communication 1996-97 Stanley P. Franklin, Professor, Mathematical Sciences 1995-96 Shelley White-Means, Professor, Economics 1994-95 William R. Shadish, Professor, Psychology 1993-94 Ralph J. Faudree, Professor, Mathematics 1992-93 Steven M. Ross, Professor, Counseling, Ed. Psy., &amp; Research How to Apply Faculty eligible for the award must be active and continuously employed by the University for at least five years. The award can only be given once to an individual. Chairs of Excellence are not eligible. A letter of nomination may be submitted by anyone familiar with the candidate's credentials. A nomination remains active for five years unless withdrawn by the nominee. Send nominations to: Mail Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award Attn: Jan Brownlee Office of the Provost University of Memphis 360 Administration Building Memphis, TN 38152 Email Documents should be in PDF format with "Sparks Eminent Faculty Award" in the subject line Send to jbrownle@memphis.edu Faculty Excellence in Engaged Scholarship The University of Memphis is a metropolitan research institution that seeks to serve its urban, regional, state, national, and global communities in a number of ways. Vital to this mission is scholarship that addresses the concerns and opportunities of these communities. Such scholarship: Involves academic projects that engage faculty members and students in a collaborative and sustained manner with community groups; Connects university outreach endeavors with community organizational goals; Furthers mutual productive relationships between the university and the community; Entails shared authority in the research process from defining the research problem, choosing theoretical and methodological approaches, conducting the results, developing the final product(s), to participating in peer review; and Results in excellence in engaged scholarship through such products as peer-reviewed publications, peer-reviewed collaborative reports, documentation of impact, and external funding. In keeping with this purpose, the University of Memphis has established a faculty award to recognize excellence in engaged scholarship. The Excellence in Engaged Scholarship Award will further awareness of engaged scholarship in partnerships between faculty members and students of the University of Memphis and community organizations and agencies in the Memphis/Mid-South region, the State of Tennessee, the United States, and global communities. Previous award winners include: 2014 Katherine Lambert-Pennington 2013 Lynda M. Sagrestano 2012 Joy A. Clay 2011 No award given 2010 Michael D. Hagge 2009 Dorothy Norris-Tirrell 2008 Michael Schmidt 2007 Phyllis Betts and Richard Janikowski 2006 James P. Whelan 2005 Stanley E. Hyland How to Apply Alumni Association Awards: Candidates may be self-nominated or nominated by any faculty or administrative staff member employed full-time by The UofM in the semester of nomination. Those not self-nominated should be informed of their candidacy by the College or School receiving the nomination. Colleges and Schools may nominate one faculty member in each category. All nominations must be endorsed by the unit chair. Nominations from the Colleges of Arts &amp; Sciences, Business &amp; Economics, Communication &amp; Fine Arts, Education, and Engineering must be submitted to the appropriate College Council for Graduate Studies and Research. Nominations from the Schools of Communication Sciences and Disorders, Public Health, Nursing, and Law must be submitted directly to the Dean of the School. The Colleges and Schools will set their own internal deadlines prior to final submission to the Vice Provost for Research. After review within the College or School, the Dean's office will send a single nomination from the College or School to dcummngs@memphis.edu in the Office of the Vice Provost for Research by Friday, 31 January 2014 (see Submission Process below), along with a narrative statement detailing the nominee's achievements in Engaged Scholarship. The Dean's office will notify all nominees about the results of the College or School review. Process: Departments/Divisions should send completed nomination packets via email to their respective College/School using the Subject Line: [Year] AADRA Nominations. Each College/School should upload packets onto the UM Drive as a single PDF file for each category using the Subject Line: [Year] AADRA Nominations and submit to dcummngs@memphis.edu, Office of the Vice Provost for Research. Please check with your College/School for internal deadlines. If you need assistance setting up your UM Drive, please contact your LSP. The nomination packet consists of the required cover sheet (last page of guidelines); a CV with a complete list of publications, along with a maximum of three copies of scholarly and/or creative activities, a narrative summary of achievements in creative activity, research, or engaged scholarship; recommendation letters from the academic unit and College or School; and at least three external letters from distinguished referees or community partners in engaged scholarship. The nominee will provide names of possible reviewers, which will be supplemented by the department chair. At the College or School level, the Graduate Director will solicit the three external letters of recommendations. Nominations of faculty who have won the award in the past should stress the nominee's work since that award was won. For the Engaged Scholarship Award, it is important that these materials demonstrate how the faculty member has engaged in a collaborative and sustained manner with community groups; has connected university outreach with community organizational goals; has furthered mutual productive relationships between the university and the community; and has generated products—such as peer-reviewed publications, peer-reviewed collaborative reports, and external funding—that reflect excellence in engaged scholarship activities. After review within the College or School, the Dean's office will submit a single nomination in each category appropriate to that College or School to the Office of the Vice Provost for Research, Administration 308, along with a letter detailing the nominee's achievements. The Dean's office will notify all nominees about the results of the review. Honorary Degrees The University of Memphis has the authority to award up to two honorary degrees each year to distinguished individuals who merit special recognition for extraordinary achievements that have improved the community they serve, contributed to society, as well as benefited the University of Memphis. Previous recipients include: 2015 Gary Shorb &amp; Scott Morris 2014 Honey Scheidt and R. Brad Martin 2013 Jim Ayers 2012 Larry Papasan 2011 Bert Bornblum 2010 Maxine Smith 2009 Robert Fogelman 2008 Fred Smith 2007 Rudi E. Scheidt 2006 Harry W. Feinstone You are invited to nominate a person for his or her outstanding performance and to whom the University of Memphis can show its appreciation. The guidelines for awarding honorary degrees are located at In order to nominate a person please review the policy above and include the following: A letter of nomination, including: a summary of the distinguished contributions made by the nominee whose career reflects sustained, exceptional achievement in some field of scholarship, public service, or in an artistic, literary, governmental, financial, professional, research, leadership, cultural affairs, or other endeavor; the nominator's relationship with the candidate, and any perceived potential conflicts of interest; an indication of the extent to which the nominee has been associated with the University of Memphis. Any additional pertinent information. After review of the nominees, the Honorary Degree Committee will solicit additional supporting materials including the nominee's vita and three letters of recommendation from within or outside of the university explaining why the candidate is worthy of further consideration for the award of an honorary degree from the University of Memphis. Mail Honorary Degree Attn: Jan Brownlee Office of the Provost University of Memphis 360 Administration Building Memphis, TN 38152 Email Documents should be in PDF format with "Honorary Degree" in the subject line Send to jbrownle@memphis.edu Provost CHC Partnership Faculty Spotlight Chairs of Excellence University Professorships Awards Program About Awards Programs Academic Affairs Nominations Academic Affairs Winners Faculty Awards Faculty Award Winners Provost's Blog Check out some of the latest Academic Affairs news Academic Affairs Award Nominations Help us recognize the hard work and dedication of the University's staff Faudree Professorship Help the University retain its best and brightest faculty by donating today Critical Conversations Join the conversation today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .