#http://www.memphis.edu/museumstudies/requirements/
Requirements - Museum Studies - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies About Program Admission Courses Requirements Faculty Requirements Application Form Recommendation Request Form Home Museum Studies Requirements Requirements After the student has been accepted into the Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies and admitted to graduate study at the University of Memphis, the following requirements must be met for satisfactory completion of the Museum Certificate. Requirements - 1. Students must remain in good academic standing, maintaining a minimum GPA of 3.0 during the entire course of their studies. 2. Each student is required to meet with the Museum Studies program coordinator (Dr. Leslie Luebbers) before the beginning of each semester to be cleared to register for their Museum Studies courses. If a student fails to meet with the Museum Studies advisor for two (2) consecutive semesters (not counting summer session), the student will be automatically dropped from the Museum Studies Certificate Program. The student will need to apply to the Museum Studies advisory panel to be reinstated in the program and receive the Certificate. Contact Dr. Luebbers ( lluebbrs@memphis.edu ) to be readmitted. 3. During the first semester in the Museum Studies program, the student must file a Change of Status form with the University of Memphis. This form officially adds the Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies to the student's degree objectives. Note: If the student is also enrolled in a major degree program (MA, MS, MFA, PhD) at the University of Memphis, filing this form will not substitute the Certificate for the major degree, but will add the Certificate to the student's list of degree objectives. 4. Complete the two core courses (ANTH/ARTH 7661 and 7662) with a minimum 3.0 GPA. 5. Successfully complete two internships (ANTH/ARTH 7669) . The student must be officially admitted to the Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies and have successfully completed at least one core course, before any internship will be approved. 6. Complete two elective courses approved by the program coordinator (Dr. Luebbers) while maintaining a minimum 3.0 GPA. 7. Complete a graduate degree (MA, MS, MFA, or PhD) in a related discipline. 8. Obtain the Graduate Certificate - A. For students who entered the Museum Studies Certificate Program while in pursuit of an advanced degree (MA, MS, MFA, PhD). The Graduate Certificate can not be awarded until all requirements for the major degree (MA, MS, MFA, PhD) have also been completed. At that time, both the major degree and the graduate certificate will be conferred by the University of Memphis. To be awarded the Certificate, the student must file a Graduate Certificate Program Candidacy form at the same time (if all six required courses have been completed) they file the Master's or Doctoral Degree Candidacy form with the Graduate School of the University of Memphis. The Graduate Certificate Candidacy form must include all appropriate signatures. Graduate Certificate Program Candidacy page To be filled out upon completion of all required coursework for both the Museum Studies and major degree programs. B. For students who entered the Museum Studies Certificate Program already in possession of an advanced degree (MA, MS, MFA, PhD). To be awarded the Certificate, the student must file for Graduate Certificate Program Candidacy with the Graduate School of the University of Memphis once all the Museum Studies program requirements have been satisfied. The Graduate Certificate form must include all appropriate signatures. Graduate Certificate Program Candidacy page To be filled out upon successful completion of all required coursework for the Museum Studies program. Inquiries may be directed to Dr. Leslie Luebbers, Director of the Art Museum (lluebbrs@memphis.edu) Requirements Application Form Recommendation Request Form Student Wiki Check out our student-maintained Wikispace for more information about the program and Museum Studies opportunities! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .