#http://www.memphis.edu/payroll/other.php
Miscellaneous Information - Payroll - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Payroll Staff Directory Payroll Schedules Miscellaneous Info Accounting Home Payroll Miscellaneous Information Miscellaneous Information Direct Deposit The first direct deposit to your account will usually be the second payroll after the Payroll Office has entered your authorization. If you make a change to your direct deposit, your next check will be manual and will need to be picked up at the Bursar's teller windows with picture identification. Part-time Instructor Payment Fall part-time instructors get paid in September, October, and November. Spring part-time instructors get paid in February, March, and April. W-2 Copies You can come to the Payroll Office (272 Administration Building) with picture identification. You can also send a written request including your name, social security number, and current address to Payroll Office, 272 Administration Building, Memphis, TN 38152). Electronic copies of W-2s are also available in the MyMemphis portal . Earnings Codes An index of earning codes is available in the HR Program Guide . Reporting Overtime Overtime payment for biweekly-paid and temporary employees is calculated by the week. However, overtime is reported for a two-week pay period. Accrued time for overtime pay includes actual hours worked and holiday hours. Any hours other than holiday hours and work hours are excluded from overtime compensation. (e.g., sick and annual leave hours are excluded from overtime compensation.) The time sheet totals hours as they are entered, it does not separate totals by the week. Be cautious when entering overtime hours as the totals that accumulate may not be a direct reflection of a single week in the pay period. There are two types of overtime earnings: Straight Overtime (Overtime 1.0) After an employee has accrued 37.5 hours during a single work week, additional work or holiday hours up to 40 hours during the same week will be compensated at straight-time (regular rate of pay). Premium Overtime (Overtime 1.5) When an employee has accrued 40 hours during any work week, additional work or holiday hours during the same week will be compensated at premium time (one and one-half times the regular rate of pay). Reporting Partial Hours University Policy states that hours are to be reported in tenths of hours; for example, 7.5, 4.3, 8.1. Use the following chart to as a guide to converting minutes to tenths of an hour: 1 - 6 minutes = .1 hour 7 - 12 minutes = .2 hour 13 - 18 minutes = .3 hour 19 - 24 minutes = .4 hour 25 - 30 minutes = .5 hour 31 - 36 minutes = .6 hour 37 - 42 minutes = .7 hour 43 - 48 minutes = .8 hour 49 - 54 minutes = .9 hour 55 - 60 minutes = 1.0 hour MyMemphis Time sheets and leave reports are accessed through the portal's Employee tab. Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .