#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11507
Coordinator, Disability Resources for Students Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Coordinator, Disability Resources for Students Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE829 Advertised Title Coordinator, Disability Resources for Students Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 002454 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department Disability Resources for Students Minimum Position Qualifications Master&#8217;s Degree in Counseling, Education, Special Education, Higher Education, or other related field, and three to five years of appropriate experience. Special Conditions Work Schedule Monday &#8211; Friday 8:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. May need to work/travel beyond normal work schedule Posting Date 11/17/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range $45,524 per year Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit; use hands to handle, or feel; and talk or hear. The employee frequently is required to walk. The employee is occasionally required to stand; reach with hands and arms; and stoop, kneel, or crouch. The employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to 10 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision. Additional Working Conditions Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Interprets documentation of disability, such as medical and psycho-educational reports. Gathers and integrates information from multiple sources, including the student, medical professionals, and faculty and staff members to determine a student’s eligibility for disability-related accommodations and services, and to develop an individualized plan for a student’s disability-related accommodations and services. Duties & Responsibilities Arranges, coordinates and provides disability-related accommodations including notetakers, interpreters, captioning, alternate format tests and materials, Assistive Technology (AT), and test accommodations. Duties & Responsibilities Evaluates Assistive Technology (AT) hardware and software and makes recommendations for purchases within Disability Resources for Students ( DRS ) and across the University of Memphis. Develops “how to” guides for all AT for ease of use by DRS staff and students. Duties & Responsibilities Maintains records and files. Duties & Responsibilities Provides personal, academic, and career development counseling and guidance to students with disabilities. Duties & Responsibilities Recruits, hires, trains, and oversees employees providing specialized accommodations and services; schedules employees and assigns tasks; monitors and evaluates performance. Duties & Responsibilities Interacts and collaborates with external entities, including rehabilitation agencies and personnel, and community resources and organizations. Duties & Responsibilities Collaborates with DRS staff and students and U of M students, staff and faculty to solve problems, create programs, and provide disability awareness and understanding. Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). * Explain your experience choosing, purchasing, and instructing others in Assistive Technology. (Open Ended Question) * Discuss your knowledge of and experience working with specific populations of persons with disabilities. (Open Ended Question) Applicant Documents Required Documents Resume Cover Letter References List Optional Documents