#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/admissions/misc_info.php
Miscellaneous Information - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Admissions Information Residency Classification Admission to Masters Degree Programs Admission to Doctoral Degree Programs Admission to Education Specialist Program Admission of International Students Readmission Requirements Other Admission Regulations Miscellaneous Information Home Graduate Catalog Admissions Miscellaneous Information Miscellaneous Admissions Information Hepatitis Vaccination The General Assembly of the State of Tennessee mandates that each public or private post-secondary institution in the state provide information concerning Hepatitis B infection to all students entering the institution for the first time. Those students who will be living on campus must also receive information about the risk of meningococcal meningitis infection. After reading this information and prior to registering for classes, you must complete and sign the waiver form to indicate that you have received the information and have chosen to have the vaccination, plan to have the vaccination, or chosen not to have the vaccination. The waiver form is on-line at: Measles Vaccination The University of Memphis requires all students born after January 1957 to have had the measles (MMR) vaccination after January 1, 1980, in order to register. The vaccination is available in the University Health Center for a nominal fee. Health Services Limited medical services are available in the University Health Center upon presentation of a valid student identification card. Outpatient medical services, including general clinical evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment; laboratory and X-ray; family planning; and a dispensary are available. Students are charged only for lab tests sent off-campus to a reference lab, for medicines (over-the-counter or prescribed by the center) purchased at the dispensary, and for family planning. Entrance Examination Information The GRE, PRAXIS I (PPST), and TOEFL can be taken on campus by computer. Call the University of Memphis ETS Computer-Based Testing Center (John W. Brister Hall 112) at 901-678-1457 to make an appointment. Graduate Record Examination (GRE): Registration packets for the GRE may be obtained from the Testing Center (JWB 112). Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT): Arrangements for taking the GMAT can be made by writing to GMAT, Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New Jersey 08540, by calling 1-800-462-8669, or by using . Miller Analogies Test (MAT): Students who wish to arrange for the MAT should contact the Testing Center, JWB 112. Residency Classification Determinations concerning the classification of graduate students as in-state or out-of-state for fee purposes are made in Graduate Admissions. The determinations are based on the regulations and guidelines of the Tennessee Board of Regents. See "Expenses" for further information. The residency guidelines differ from and are independent of guidelines used to determine residency for other purposes, such as tax liability, driver's licenses, voting, etc. If, for any reason, there is a question about a student's residency classification for fee paying purposes, it is his or her responsibility to check with Graduate Admissions. Application for reclassification must be made to the classification officer on or before the last day of regular registration of that semester. Veterans Services Mission: The Office of Veterans Services, 003 Wilder Tower, provides assistance for eligible National Guard/Reserves, veterans, and/or dependents who enroll at the University of Memphis and who make application for programs of education or training, and VA tutorial services. Other assistance includes: liaison with Veterans Administration Regional Office, counseling, and counseling referral for personal, family, career, financial, and educational problems. Application for VA benefits: Those who will be using VA educational assistance while enrolled at the University of Memphis should contact the Office of Veterans Services. They should also be prepared to furnish the following items as applicable: The number 4 original or copy of the DD214 or other armed forces separation papers. Copy of Delayed Enlistment Contract. Copies of marriage licenses and children's birth certificates. Copy of final divorce decree if either veteran or spouse has been previously married. VA file number if different from social security number. Advance Pay: Advance payment is available for eligible veterans and dependents who plan to enroll on at least a half-time basis. Applications will be accepted in the Veterans Services Office as early as 120 days before the term begins but no later than 45 days before the beginning entry. Generally, the advance pay deadline for the fall semester is around July 15, while spring semester deadline is around November 15. Advance pay checks include an allowance for the month or fraction thereof in which the course begins and the allowance for the following month. Advance pay checks are mailed to the school for delivery to the student at registration. Initial applicants who do not apply for advance pay may expect their check to be mailed to their home within six to eight weeks after registration. Enrollment Status: For VA benefits during the regular terms (Fall and Spring), 12 semester hours constitute a full-time load for undergraduate students; 9 hours is full-time for graduate students. However, training time for summer session at the undergraduate and graduate level is based on the number of semester hours attempted per term. The Veterans Administration places restrictions on those who receive veterans educational benefits. Some of these restrictions include: (1) regular class attendance, (2) satisfactory academic progress, and (3) adherence to a specific degree plan. Degree Plan: Only courses that are required for the degree and major may be certified for VA pay. VA will not pay for repeat courses if the grade already earned is accepted by the U of M and will fulfill graduation requirements toward the declared degree and major (even if the course was taken at another institution with or without use of the GI Bill). VA will not pay for elective courses in excess of those needed to meet graduation requirements. Although advisors are provided for veterans, this assistance does not relieve students of the responsibility for fulfilling all VA and University requirements. Certification: Enrollment certifications are mailed and/or electronically submitted to the appropriate VA Regional Office upon receipt of the Veterans Request for Certification Form. Students are required to submit this form to the Veteran Services Office at the University of Memphis each semester. Students will be certified on a term-by-term basis. Pre-certification will be done only when a request for advance pay is made. Termination of Benefits: VA benefits and Title IV funds for enrollment fees are subject to cancellation and immediate repayment if the recipient stops attending, whether or not he/she has withdrawn or dropped a course. The instructor will report the last known date of attendance as the student's "unofficial withdrawal date." Students who stop attending will be assigned a grade of "F" in courses that do not reflect an official withdrawal. ROTC Programs Graduate students are eligible to earn a commission as a second lieutenant in the US Air Force by completing 12 semester hours of the AFROTC advanced program in conjunction with their graduate studies. Applications are accepted during January and February for Fall semester entries. Graduate students are also eligible to earn a commission as a second lieutenant in the US Army by completing 16 semester hours of the ROTC advanced program in conjunction with their graduate studies. Admissions Information Residency Classification Admission to Masters Degree Programs Admission to Doctoral Degree Programs Admission to Education Specialist Program Admission of International Students Readmission Requirements Other Admission Regulations Miscellaneous Information Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .