#http://www.memphis.edu/benefits/pdf/aflac_criticalill.pdf
GROUP CRITICAL ILLNESS CIGPeace of Mind andReal Cash Bene˜ts CAI2875TN BrdRgnts 10-11 Includes Cancer and Wellness CIGGROUP CRITICAL ILLNESS Policy Series CAI2800TN You can win the battle against a critical illness, but can you handle the added costs? A group critical illness plan helps prepare you for the added costs of battling a specific critical illness. The good news is that many people with a critical illness survive these life-threatening battles. Unfortunately, as the recovery process begins, people become aware of the medical bills that have piled up. Your recovery doesn™t have to be spoiled by medical bills. With this plan, our goal is to help you and your family cope with and recover from the financial stress of surviving a critical illness.COVERAGE WORK SHEET Employee Benefit: $ ___________________ Spouse Benefit: $ ___________________ Child Benefit: $ ___________________ (25 percent of the primary insured amount) Total Weekly Deduction: $ ___________________ This work sheet is for illustration purposes only. It does not imply coverage. OVER 1.4 FACT MILLION The number of new cancer cases that were expected to be diagnosed in 2009.33Cancer Facts & Figures 2009 , American Cancer Society.$75 HEALTH SCREENING BENEFIT (Employee and Spouse only) After the waiting period, an insured may receive a maximum of $75 for any one covered health screening test per calendar year. We will pay this benefit regardless of the results of the test. Payment of this benefit will not reduce the critical illness benefit payable under your certificate. There is no limit to the number of years the insured can receive the health screening benefit; it will be paid as long as the certificate remains in force. This benefit is payable for the covered Employee and Spouse. This benefit is not paid for Dependent Children. COVERED HEALTH SCREENING TESTS INCLUDE: BENEFITS FIRST-OCCURRENCE BENEFIT After the waiting period, a lump sum benefit is payable upon initial diagnosis of a covered critical illness. Employee benefit amounts available from $5,000 to $50,000. Spouse coverage is also available in benefit amounts up to $25,000. If you are deemed ineligible due to a previous medical condition, you still retain the ability to purchase Spouse coverage. ADDITIONAL OCCURRENCE BENEFIT If an insured collects full benefits for a critical illness under the plan and later has one of the remaining covered critical illnesses, then we will pay the full benefit amount for each additional illness. Occurrences must be separated by at least six months. RE-OCCURRENCE BENEFIT If an insured collects full benefits for a covered condition and is later diagnosed with the same condition, we will pay the full benefit again. The two dates of diagnosis must be separated by at least 12 months, or for cancer, 12 months treatment free. Cancer that has spread not be considered an additional occurrence unless the Insured has gone treatment free for 12 months. CHILD COVERAGE AT NO ADDITIONAL COST Each Dependent Child is covered at 25 percent of the primary insured amount at no additional charge. COVERED CRITICAL ILLNESSES: 1 2 2 1All covered conditions are subject to the definitions found in your certificate. 2If a benefit is paid for Carcinoma in Situ, the Internal Cancer benefit will be reduced by 25 percent. If a benefit is paid for Coronary Artery Bypass WHAT IS NOT COVERED, LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS, AND TERMS YOU NEED TO KNOW IF DIAGNOSIS OCCURS AFTER THE AGE OF 70, HALF OF THE BENEFIT IS PAYABLE. When not caused by an accident, the following waiting period will apply. The plan contains a 30-day Waiting Period. This means no benefits are payable for any Insured who has been diagnosed before coverage has been in force 30 days from the Insured™s Effective Date. If an Insured is first diagnosed during the Waiting Period, benefits for treatment of that medically related Specified Critical Illness will apply only to loss commencing after twelve months from the Insured™s Effective Date; or, at your option, you may elect to void this rider from the beginning and receive a full refund of premium. The applicable benefit amount will be paid if: the date of diagnosis is after the waiting period; the date of diagnosis occurs while the certificate is in force; and the cause of the illness is not excluded by name or specific description. EXCLUSIONS Benefits will not be paid for loss due to: insurrection or riot, civil commotion or state of belligerence; No benefits will be paid for loss which occurred prior to the Effective Date. No benefits will be paid for diagnosis made or treatment received outside of the United States. PRE-EXISTING CONDITION LIMITATION Pre-Existing Condition means a sickness or physical condition which, within the 12-month period prior to the Effective Date, either: (1) resulted in You receiving medical advice or treatment; or (2) caused symptoms for which an ordinarily prudent person would seek medical advice or treatment. We will not pay benefits for any condition or illness starting within 12 months of the Effective Date which is caused by, contributed to, or resulting from a Pre-existing Condition. A claim for benefits for loss starting after 12 months from the Effective Date will not be reduced or denied on the grounds that it is caused by a Pre-existing Condition. A condition will no longer be considered Pre-existing at the end of 12 consecutive months starting and ending after the Effective Date. Treatment means consultation, care or services provided by a physician including diagnostic measures and taking prescribed drugs and medicines. TERMS YOU NEED TO KNOW The Effective Date of your insurance will be the date shown in your Certificate Schedule. Employee means the insured as shown in the Certificate Schedule. Spouse means an Employee's legal wife or husband. Dependent Children means your natural children, step-children, foster children, legally adopted children or children placed for adoption, who are under age 26. Your natural Children born after the Effective Date of the Rider will be covered from the moment of live birth. No notice or additional premium is required. Coverage on Dependent Children will terminate on the child™s 26th birthday. However, if any child is incapable of self-sustaining employment due to mental retardation or physical handicap and is dependent on his parent(s) for support, the above age 26 shall not apply. Proof of such incapacity and dependency must be furnished to the Company within 31 days following such 26th birthday. Treatment means consultation, care, or services provided by a physician, including diagnostic measures and taking prescribed drugs and medicines. Major Organ Transplant means undergoing surgery as a recipient of a transplant of a human heart, lung, liver, kidney, or pancreas. Myocardial Infarction (Heart Attack) means the death of a portion of the heart muscle (myocardium) resulting from a blockage of one or more coronary arteries. Heart Cardiac arrest not caused by a Myocardial Infarction is not a Heart Attack. The diagnosis must include all of the following criteria: 1. New and serial eletrocardiographic (EKG) findings consistent with Myocardial Infarction; 2. Elevation of cardiac enzymes above generally accepted laboratory levels of normal [in case of creatine phosphokinase (CPK), a CPK-MB measurement must be used]; and 3. Confirmatory imaging studies such as thallium scans, MUGA scans, or stress echocardiograms. Stroke means apoplexy (due to rupture or acute occlusion of a cerebral artery), or a cerebral vascular accident or incident which is first manifested on or after your Effective Date. Stroke does not include transient ischemic attacks and attacks of vertebrobasilar ischemia. We will pay a benefit for Stroke that produces permanent clinical neurological sequela following an initial diagnosis made after any applicable Waiting Period. We must receive evidence of the permanent neurological damage provided from computed axial tomography (CAT scan) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Stroke does not mean Cancer (Internal or Invasive) means a malignant tumor characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of malignant cells and the invasion of distant tissue. Cancer includes leukemia. Excluded are Cancers that are noninvasive, such as (1) Premalignant tumors or polyps; (2) Carcinoma in Situ; (3) Any skin cancers except melanomas; (4) Basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin; and (5) Melanoma that is diagnosed as Clark™s Level I or II or Breslow thickness less than .77 mm. Cancer is also defined as a disease which meets the diagnosis criteria of malignancy established by The American Board of Pathology after a study of the histocytologic architecture or pattern of the suspect tumor, tissue, or specimen. Carcinoma in Situ means Cancer that is in the natural or normal place, confined to the site of origin without having invaded neighboring tissue. Renal Failure (Kidney Failure) means the end-stage renal failure presenting as chronic, irreversible failure of both of your kidneys to function. The Kidney Failure must necessitate regular renal dialysis, hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis (at least weekly); or which results in kidney transplantation. Renal failure is covered, provided it is not caused by a traumatic event, including surgical traumas. Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery means undergoing open heart surgery to correct narrowing or blockage of one or more coronary arteries with bypass grafts, but excluding procedures such as but not limited to balloon angioplasty, laser relief, stents or other nonsurgical procedures. A doctor, physician, or pathologist does not include an insured or a family member. PORTABLE COVERAGE When coverage would otherwise terminate because the Employee ends employment with the employer, coverage may be continued. The Employee will continue the coverage that is in force on the date employment ends, including dependent coverage then in effect. The Employee will be allowed to continue the coverage until the earlier of the date the Employee fails to pay the required premium or the date the group master policy is terminated. Coverage may not be continued if the Employee fails to pay any required premium or the group master policy terminates. TERMINATION Coverage will terminate on the earliest of: (1) The date the master policy is terminated; (2) The 31st day after the premium due date if the required premium has not been paid; (3) The date the insured ceases to meet the definition of an Employee as defined in the master policy; or (4) The date the Employee is no longer a member of the class eligible. Coverage for an insured Spouse or Dependent Child will terminate the earliest of: (1) the date the Plan is terminated; (2) the date the Spouse or Dependent Child ceases to be a dependent; (3) the premium due date following the date we receive your written request to terminate coverage for your Spouse and/or all Dependent Children. We™ve got you under our wing. ®a˜acgroupinsurance.com 1.800.433.3036 WHAT IS NOT COVERED, LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS, AND TERMS YOU NEED TO KNOW The certificate to which this sales material pertains is written only in English; the certificate prevails if interpretation of this material varies.This brochure is a brief description of coverage and is not a contract. Read your certificate carefully for exact terms and conditions. This brochure is subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of Policy Form Series CAI2800TN.Underwritten by: Continental American Insurance Company 2801 Devine Street | Columbia, South Carolina 29205