#http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/asstshps.php
Graduate Studies and Assistantships - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Home Music Future Students Graduate Studies and Assistantships Graduate Studies and Assistantships The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music at the University of Memphis offers major degree programs in music from the bachelor's and master's through the doctorate. It is the only university in Tennessee that offers the doctorate in music. The School excels in all performance areas, with artist teachers of the highest quality and reputation. It has a music computer lab, an electro-acoustic composition lab and an electronic music studio. It also offers a complete recording studio, with digital soundboard and complete professional quality recording capabilities. The Music Library, which is housed in the Music Building, holds more than 45,000 books and scores, over 17,000 recordings and a large collection of historical manuscripts in microfilm. DEGREES OFFERED Degree outlines can be found in the Graduate Catalog . Artist Diploma Opera Coaching Opera Stage Direction Violin Voice Master of Music Composition Conducting - Choral - Orchestral - Wind Jazz and Studio Music Music Education Musicology Orff-Schulwerk Pedagogy - Piano - Strings Performance Doctor of Musical Arts Composition Conducting - Choral - Orchestral - Wind Performance Doctor of Philosophy Music Education Musicology - Historical - Southern Regional The University The University of Memphis is one of the state's largest universities with an enrollment of over 20,000 students. It features comprehensive degree programs in all major areas. It is committed to excellence, with emphasis on community involvement. It is an urban research university governed by the Tennessee Board of Regents. ADMISSION TO THE UNIVERSITY All prospective students must apply to and be accepted by both the Graduate School of the University and the School of Music. Acceptance to the University does not guarantee acceptance into the music program. Acceptance to the School of Music is contingent on acceptance by the University. The University requires sealed, official transcripts from an accredited college that should be mailed to: Graduate Admissions The University of Memphis 200 Wilder Tower Memphis, TN 38152 The Graduate School requires applicants whose native language is not English to take the TOEFL test and applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign institution to submit credentials to World Educational Services (WES). For details, see Applicants to D.M.A. and Ph.D. programs must submit current GRE or Miller Analogies Test scores to the University. For master's degrees, standardized test scores are optional. Artist Diploma Applicants should apply to the University as a graduate applicant or an "Artist Diploma in Music CERT." Standardized test scores are not required of Artist Diploma Applicants. ADMISSION TO THE SCHOOL OF MUSIC All students must complete a Graduate Admission Application to the School of Music. The School of Music requires an admission process which is separate from and in addition to the University of Memphis application. The School of Music requires an audition for admission in Performance, Conducting, Pedagogy and Jazz; submission of scores for admission in Composition; and a writing sample for admission in Musicology, Music Education and Orff-Schulwerk. Artist Diploma and Conducting applicants must be screened and then invited to audition. Music Education applicants are expected to hold a current teaching license in music and will be required to illustrate proof of that as part of the online application. All applicants who are accepted to the School of Music take proficiency examinations in Music History and Music Theory that are given on the Monday and Tuesday preceding the first day of class each semester. AUDITION INFORMATION All graduate applicants, except for Artist Diploma, may register to audition in Memphis on any of the following School of Music audition days. December 5, 2015 February 6, 2016 February 20, 2016 February 27, 2016 Private auditions may be arranged by contacting applied faculty. Artist Diploma - Voice applicants who are invited to audition may do so on December 5 in Memphis, TN. Submission date for screening application is November 2. Artist Diploma - Opera Coaching applicants, email Mark Ensley for information. Artist Diploma - Opera Directing applicants, email Mark Ensley for information. Artist Diploma - Violin applicants who are invited to audition may do so on February 20 or February 27. Submission date for screening application is January 4. Artist Diploma applicants audition for representatives of partnering institutions as well as School of Music faculty. TO DOs for the University of Memphis Master of Music and Artist Diploma Submit an application to the University of Memphis Graduate Admissions. Have sealed, official transcripts sent from your colleges/universities to the University of Memphis Graduate Admissions Doctor of Musical Arts and Doctor of Philosophy: Submit an application to the University of Memphis Graduate Admissions. Have sealed, official transcripts sent from your colleges/universities to the University of Memphis Graduate Admissions. Submit GRE or MAT scores to Graduate Admissions. TO DOs for the School of Music Artist Diploma – Voice Log in to DecisionDesk to begin your application. Re-enter as often as you like to complete. Submit your screening video, curriculum vitae, repertoire list, head-shot and the names and email addresses of two recommenders before November 2. Artist Diploma – Violin Log in to DecisionDesk to begin your application. Re-enter as often as you like to complete. Submit your screening video, curriculum vitae, repertoire list, and the names and email addresses of two recommenders before January 11. Master of Music and Doctor of Musical Arts Conducting Log in to DecisionDesk to begin your application. Re-enter as often as you like to complete. Submit your screening video, curriculum vitae, and the names and email addresses of two recommenders before February 1 but earlier in order to allow time to be invited to audition and make travel plans for an audition early in the Spring semester. Master of Music and Doctor of Musical Arts Performance, Pedagogy, and Jazz Log in to DecisionDesk to begin your application. Re-enter as often as you like to complete. Submit your live audition day request, curriculum vitae, repertoire list if required, and the names and email addresses of two recommenders before February 1. Master of Music and Doctor of Musical Arts Composition Log in to DecisionDesk to begin your application. Re-enter as often as you like to complete. Submit your musical scores, curriculum vitae, and the names and email addresses of two recommenders before February 1. Master of Music Music Education, Musicology and Orff-Schulwerk Log in to DecisionDesk to begin your application. Re-enter as often as you like to complete. Submit your writing sample, curriculum vitae, and the names and email addresses of two recommenders before February 1. Music Education applicants will need to provide proof of your current licensure in music. Doctor of Philosophy Historical Musicology, Music Education and Musicology Log in to DecisionDesk to begin your application. Re-enter as often as you like to complete. Submit your writing sample, curriculum vitae, and the names and email addresses of two recommenders before February 1. Music Education applicants will need to provide proof of your current licensure in music. Deadlines for Fall 2016 All graduate applicants seeking assistantships should have submitted all application materials required by the School of Music to the School by February 1 and should have submitted all application materials required by the University of Memphis to the University by March 1. Those required to audition should have auditioned for the School of Music by the end of February. Deadlines for application to the University for international students are much earlier than for domestic applicants. Please consult the Graduate School Admissions website. Deadlines for application to the University for domestic applicants who are not seeking assistantships are: July 1 for admission in fall and December 1 for admission in spring. Graduate Assistantships Graduate assistantships are available for up to $6,000 for master's students and up to $7,000 for doctoral students up to $7,000 plus tuition remission for both. Assistantships carry teaching responsibilities of two undergraduate classes or other responsibilities not to exceed twenty hours per week. The University provides remission, including student activity fees, for all graduate assistants working at least 20 hours per week during the regular school year. The student is, however, responsible for any music fees (from applied lessons) that are generated. For details see the School of Music Graduate Handbook . Assistantship Opportunities Applied Music Teaching - Brass - Classical Guitar - Guitar Class - Choral Conducting - Orchestral Conducting - Wind Conducting - Percussion - Jazz Percussion - Piano - Class Piano - Strings - Jazz Studies - Voice - Woodwinds Collaborative Piano - Accompanying - Opera Accompanying Composition Ethnomusicology Music Education Musicology Performance - Large Ensembles - Chamber Ensembles Information on applying to the School of Music may be obtained from the School of Music website or contacting the Music Admissions Coordinator, musicadmissions@memphis.edu , 901.678.3766 or Joyce Gordon, Academic Programs Coordinator, mjgordon@memphis.edu , 901.678.3532 Detailed information about all graduate music programs can be found in the Graduate Student Handbook . Please use these addresses for any U.S. postal correspondence: Music Admissions The University of Memphis Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music 129 Music Building Memphis, TN 38152-3160 Graduate Admissions The University of Memphis 200 Wilder Tower Memphis, TN 38152-3520 Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .