#http://www.memphis.edu/mlche/pdfs/news_articles/high_deductible_health_insurance_2013_10_27.pdf
- By Kevin McKenzie Originally published 12:01 a.m., October 27, 2013 Updated 12:05 a.m., October 27, 2013 When 400,000 FedEx employees move to high - deductible health insurance plans next year, they could face higher costs and possibly one other issue dissatisfaction. FedEx Corp., the Memphis - based cargo hauler, is joining a growing group of large employers nationwide turning to high - deductible or consumer - directed health insurance plans. Companies expect these plans can help cut their own bills by making workers more cost - conscious health care consumers, but health industry experts say the impact on sick people and ine in the rate of acceleration of health care spending has coincided with the rapid growth of high - deductible or consumer - directed health plans that usually tie to a health is has led many to credit the growth of these high - deductible plans for saving billions of dollars for both But for workers, there also is clear evidence that employee satisfaction with their health benefits drops when t heir deductibles shoot up. High deductible plans often are described as those requiring individuals to pay at least $1,200 and families at least $2,400 before most or even all expenses are picked up by the plan. Monthly premiums are lower than traditional coverage. FedEx employees can get an idea of what expenses may be by trying out online health care consumer tools like the Baptist Expense Navigator. It can estimate cash payouts for procedures such as an MRI or spinal tap. To use the tools, consumers need to know details about their own health plans such as co - pays, co - insurance and out - of - pocket maximums. business college, helped write a study on the impact of high - ded uctible health plans on health care use and costs. admissions usually go down immediately after people switch to a high - deductible or consumer - owever, the jury is still out as to the long - term impacts of high - Overall, U.S. health care spending has risen at a 3.9 - percent annual rate for three straight years, compared to 6.6 percent in 2009, an d a 7.4 - percent average annual increase over the three previous decades. The slowing pace may trace to the weak economy restraining use of Chang said gathering and studying data about the health system over time c an reveal the actual medical consumption patterns taking shape in Memphis and America. - income and minority use of high - value services such as preventive care and effective prescription drugs that are essential for Meanwhile, some data about the users of high - deductible plans has been accumulating. The evidence is clear that emp loyees are less satisfied with high - deductible plans than traditional health coverage, according to an annual Employee Benefit Research Institute Survey. Out - of - pocket costs help explain the difference, the EBRI reported in September. For traditional plans , 62 percent of consumers in a 2012 survey were extremely or very satisfied with those costs. That dropped to 38 percent for high deductible plans and 48 percent for consumer - driven plans (high - deductible plans coupled with health savings or health reimbur sement accounts). - deductible plans will be any less likely to pay their bills, according to the Memphis - chief financial officer, Don Pounds. In fact, Po unds said, Baptist has seen an increase in dollars collected on the front end when patients seek services and attribute that to high - deductible plans. - deductible plans have come in, everybody appears to be trying to become a Yet, there are indications that some people faced with higher deductibles costs will skip or delay health care, even preventive care th at would cost them nothing under their plans. We want to reduce the use of unnecessary and inappropriate care but not those that work and are aid by email.