#http://www.memphis.edu/commencement/graduates/
Graduating Students - Commencement Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Graduates Graduating Students Attendance &amp; Non-Attendance Form Program Proof Cord &amp; Stole Policy Dress Undergraduates Checklist Honors Distinction Graduate Students Checklist Graduate School Requirements Hooding Information Law Checklist Law School Information Cap and Gown Pick up Announcer Information Record Difficult Name Graduation Analyst College School List Diagrams Invitations Photos Alumni /FAM Membership FAQs Home Commencement Office Graduates Graduating Students You are almost there. Won't be long now until you have that diploma in hand. Commencement is an extremely exciting time. Here are some quick tips to remember to make the day go smoothly: What do I bring? Cap, Gown, Hood, Tassel Pronouncer Card-- REQUIRED MUST be with you At the event, use the number on your card to help your Faculty Marshals and Student Marshals line you up. Safety Pins (Hoods) Bobby Pins WHERE DO I GO? WHAT DO I DO? Arrive 1 hour prior to your Commencement. Take the elevator to the Event Level (EL). Locate your college/school sign. Your Faculty/Student Marshal will provide further instructions. Use your pronouncer card to help your Marshal(s) line you up quickly. ONLY if you are an undergraduate listed as graduating with honors in the program, ask your Faculty/Student Marshals for your honor cord (summa/gold; magna/crimson; cum/white) Personal Items and Parking For more information on personal items and parking: Personal Items Leave personal belongings with family or friends. We cannot hold items and would not suggest you leave them unattended. Please do not leave items in bathrooms, on the ground or in your seat. We recommend wearing a dress or slacks with pockets. If you prefer to bring small purse with you, we recommend bringing a purse with a cross-strap that is flat enough to fit under your gown. Parking You must bring cash to pay for parking. Parking is available on a first-come, first-served basis in the FedExForum garage for $5.00 Graduates Graduating Students Attendance &amp; Non-Attendance Form Program Proof Cord &amp; Stole Policy Dress Undergraduates Checklist Honors Distinction Graduate Students Checklist Graduate School Requirements Hooding Information Law Checklist Law School Information Cap and Gown Pick up Announcer Information Record Difficult Name Graduation Analyst College School List Diagrams Invitations Photos Alumni /FAM Membership FAQs Contact Us Got questions? Let us know how we may assist you. Commencement Attendance Form Will you be attending Commencement? Inform us! News Keep up with Commencement related information. Commencement Live Can't attend Commencement? Watch it live! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .