#http://www.ce.memphis.edu/abdelnaby/
Adel Abdelnaby, PhD Biography Research Interests Publications Current Students Teaching Testing Facility Adel Abdelnaby, Ph.D. , P.E. Assistant Professor and Director, Structural Laboratory Associate Director of Center for Innovative Research in Bridge Engineering Department of Civil Engineering The University of Memphis 106C Engineering Science Building 3815 Central Avenue Memphis, Tennessee 38152 Phone: (901) 678-4633 Email: bdelnaby@memphis.edu Biography Abdelnaby holds a Ph.D. from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (2012). He has been on the faculty of the Department of Civil Engineering at The University of Memphis since the fall of 2012. Hi s professional experience includes working as a design engineer at ACE Consulting Engineers Moharram-Bakhoum, one of the largest construction and civil engineering companies in the Middle East. Dr. Abdelnaby&rsquo;s research interests are primarily in the areas of structural dynamics, earthquake engineering, structural health monitoring, life-cycle analysis of structures subjected to multiple hazards, application of innovative and smart materials in structures for hazard mitigation, passive and active control of structures, and nonlinear finite element methods. He teaches graduate and undergraduate courses related to the behavior and design of steel structures, nonlinear analysis of structural systems, and mechanics of materials. Dr. Abdelnaby is a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), American Institute of Steel Construction (AISC), American Concrete Institute (ACI), Earthquake Engineering Research Institute (EERI), and American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). He also acts as a reviewer for several journals in structural engineering. top Opportunities for Prospective Students Teaching and research assistant positions are available. Dr. Abdelnaby welcomes inquires from students interested in pursuing a graduate study in Civil Engineering at The University of Memphis. Preference will be given to students who are interested in a PhD degree (having an MS degree is not required). If you are interested please contact Dr. Abdelnaby from the contact information provided above. Please see Department&rsquo;s website for more information regarding the application and admission process: