#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/services/print.php
Printing - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology Services Circulation &amp; Borrowing Checkout Guidelines Late Fees/Fines Renewals &amp; Returns Search/Recall/Hold Course Reserves Reserves - Students Reserves - Faculty Electronic Reserves Policy Fair Use Checklist Research &amp; Instructional Services Instruction Request Instruction Center Library Liasons Learning Commons Tour Request Technology Assistance Off-Campus Access Technology Resources Laptop Checkout Computer Labs Wireless Access Library Printing/Copying 3D Labs Study Facilities Reserve a Study Room Study Carrel Policy Group Study Rooms Home Libraries Services Printing Locations Student printing is provided in the Learning Commons areas on floors 1,3, and 4. Printing in these areas follows the same guidelines as those for TAF funded labs. Printing from the Microformat Windows/scanners workstations on the second floor is available at cost (using a UofM ID card or a UofM Copy Card) at the centralized printer located near the elevators on the first floor. The iMac Computers are located on the second floor in McWherter Library. In order to print a document, it has to be sent to and released from the printer before your can receive an actual printout. The iMac computers are automatically setup to print to the printer on the first floor the Government Publications Collection. Click here to view the printing instruction for the iMac Computer. Photocopiers for student/faculty and public use in McWherter Library: First floor: Room 106 (adjacent to the elevators) Second floor: Southeast quadrant (adjacent to the Current Periodicals shelves Fourth floor: Within the Special Collections Department Microformat Windows/scanners workstations are located on the Second floor in the southeast quadrant adjacent to the Current Periodicals shelves. Payment Guidelines Either a University of Memphis ID card or a purchased copy card is required; no cash printing or copying is available. Copy cards are used for copying only. Copy cards may be purchased and copy funds added to UofM ID cards at several sites: McWherter Library Room 106 on the first floor adjacent to the elevators east, 901.678.2205. McWherter Library second floor scanning/copying area behind elevators west. Bursar's Office, 115 Wilder Tower, 901.678.2712 Card Instructions Refund Instructions Fees The cost for printing or for photocopying is $.10 per page. The cost for printouts from microforms is $.10 per page. The initial cost for the copy card itself is $1.00. After that purchase, copy funds may be added to the card in full dollar amounts ($1.00, $5.00, etc.). See Card Instructions above. No change is available in McWherter Library. Services Circulation &amp; Borrowing Checkout Guidelines Late Fees/Fines Renewals &amp; Returns Search/Recall/Hold Course Reserves Reserves - Students Reserves - Faculty Electronic Reserves Policy Fair Use Checklist Research &amp; Instructional Services Instruction Request Instruction Center Library Liasons Learning Commons Tour Request Technology Assistance Off-Campus Access Technology Resources Laptop Checkout Computer Labs Wireless Access Library Printing/Copying 3D Labs Study Facilities Reserve a Study Room Study Carrel Policy Group Study Rooms My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .