#http://www.memphis.edu/graduateadmissions/international/
International - Graduate Admissions - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Admissions Future Students Readmission International School of Law Undergraduate International Students Getting Started Request Information ISO Office Housing Options Academic Programs Graduate School Graduate Catalog Apply for Admission Admission Requirements Residency Information EVEA Application Deadline Assistantships Apply Now! What to Expect Acknowledgement Application Review Admission Decision After Acceptance I-20 and Visa Arriving in the US Visit the Campus Go to ISO Registration ID Card Parking Fee Payment International Undergraduate Home Graduate Admissions International Students Welcome Prospective Student The University of Memphis believes that the presence of international students on campus enriches the educational environment for all. The University of Memphis is authorized under Federal law to enroll non-immigrant alien students on the F-1 student visa. We accept only students with the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree--16 years of formal schooling. Prospective students must apply to the Graduate School and the respective department (only if the department requires an additional application). Individual departments may have different admission requirements and application deadlines. It is essential that you familiarize yourself with departmental information. Please visit the Graduate Catalog for specific program information. Applications are available for on-line submission. A non-refundable application and processing fee of sixty dollars U.S. (U.S. $60.00) is required of every international applicant, unless previously paid. Payment of the application fee is by credit card. For admission to a degree program, international applicants should allow at least four months for necessary documents to be processed by the appropriate degree program and the Graduate Admissions office. All test scores and credential evaluations must be on file in the Graduate Admissions, 200 Wilder Tower, at least four months before the desired enrollment date. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure full consideration. Applicants will be selected on a competitive basis and, therefore, admission will not be granted to all applicants who meet only the minimum requirements. Some departments require higher standards or additional items such as portfolios, proficiency examinations, auditions, etc. Please note that there are additional admission requirements for international students. When Graduate Admissions receives your application materials, an official file is established and reviewed. Your requested department then reviews your application and makes a recommendation to Graduate Admissions. You will be notified as soon as a decision has been reached. International Students Getting Started Request Information ISO Office Housing Options Academic Programs Graduate School Graduate Catalog Apply for Admission Admission Requirements Residency Information EVEA Application Deadline Assistantships Apply Now! What to Expect Acknowledgement Application Review Admission Decision After Acceptance I-20 and Visa Arriving in the US Visit the Campus Go to ISO Registration ID Card Parking Fee Payment International Undergraduate Apply Now! Ready to begin your graduate application? Request Information Learn more about your True Blue Future Graduate School Get more information about graduate programs. Contact Us Phone, email and location for Graduate Admissions Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .