#http://www.memphis.edu/mlche/academics/news_archive.php
News Archive - MLCHE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics About Programs Students Faculty &amp; Staff Research News About Us Research Publications Resources Other U of M Research Centers Staff &amp; Associates Policies &amp; Annual Reports Contact Us Home MLCHE Academics News Archive Center News Archive February 2015 The Center will host Dr. Marjie Harbracht of HealthTeamWorks, a Denver-based multi-stakeholder collaborative working to redesign healthcare delivery system, as speaker for the Health Care Research Journal Club. She will discuss patient-centered medical homes on February 25, 2015, at the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. For more information, click here . October 2014 The Center has updated its TennCare Timeline to include major events and milestones to October 2014. Read it here . August 2014 The Center has made available sources of useful information on the impacts of ObamaCare reform on Tennessee and the Memphis area. Use this link to access them . June 2014 Shelby County Health Statistics The County Health Rankings &amp; Roadmaps is a collaborative program between the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the University of Wisconsin Population Health Institute . Visit this site for health statistics for the 95 counties in Tennessee and their rankings. Here are two useful reports about Shelby County, Tennessee. Here and Here . April 2014 Dr. Chang, the Director of Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics, was quoted at length in an April 9, 2014 , Memphis Commercial Appeal article by reporter Kevin McKenzie about the release of Medicare doctor reimbursement data by the Center of Medicare and Medicaid. This was followed by a second article in the Nashville paper, the Tennessean, on the same topic on 04/09/2014 . Four days later on 04/13/2014 , The Chattanooga Press Free Press published a long news analysis article on the controversy surrounding the release of Medicare doctor data and quoted Dr. Chang extensively. October 2013 Dr. Cyril Chang, The Director of the Center, published an op-ed article on health care and free market. The article appeared in the October 13, 2013, edition of the Memphis Commercial Appeal. Click here to read . The Center was in the news. Reporter Kevin McKenzie of the Memphis Commercial Appeal quoted the Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics at length in an article about high-deductible health plans. Click here to read . June 2013 The Center was recently awarded a research grant to study the economic burden of hypertension, infant mortality and end-of-life care in Memphis and Shelby County. He will also investigate the returns on investment in investing in hypertension and infant mortality prevention and in the improvement of end-of-life care. Dr. Chang, who is also the Director of Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics, received the grant from the Memphis Triple Aim Project, a community-based health initiative funded by Memphis Fast Forward and administered by Healthy Memphis Common Table. January 2013 Dr. Cyril Chang, Professor of Economics and the Director of Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics, was interviewed and quoted extensively by Nooga.com, an online news outlet covering business, government, lifestyle and sports in the Chattanooga area. Click here to see Dr. Chang’s comments on national and local health care spending trends. November 2012 “Tennessee’s Option to Expand Medicaid Coverage: What are the issues?” Click here for a copy of this article published in the Nov/Dec 2012 Issue of Tennessee Medicine . August 2012 A new report, “Non-urgent ED Use in Shelby County, Tennessee” has been released. Read it here . July 2012 Op-Ed Article on the Supreme Court health care decision and the road ahead: Dr. Cyril Chang, the Director of the Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics, has published an op-ed article in the July 6th edition of the Memphis Commerical Appeal. Read it here . WKNO radio interview: Dr. Cyril Chang was interviewed by Eleanor Boudreau of WKNO FM 91.1 on the Supreme Court decision and whether Tennessee should accept federal offer to expand TennCare. To listen, click here . May 2012 The Center has released a new report, “Potentially Avoidable Hospitalizations in Shelby County, Tennessee, 2009.” Click here to download a copy. April 2012 Interested in the individual mandate controversy and the health care reform? Read this op-ed article by Dr. Cyril Chang in the April 6, 2012, edition of the Memphis Commercial Appeal here . January 2012 A new report, "Impacts of Health Reform in Tennessee," has been released. Download a copy here . December 2011 A new report, "Impact of Health Care Reform in Shelby County, Tennessee," has been released. Download a copy here . October 2011 The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics has received two grants from BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee and the Assisi Foundation, respectively, to study the impact of health care reform in Tennessee. The report is expected to be released in January 2012. August 5, 2011 Issue Brief “Non-Urgent ED Use in Tennessee, 2008” now available An updated Issue Brief on non-urgent ED use has been published. It reports the rates of non-urgent ED visits and their variations among various population subgroups across Tennessee in 2008. You can access a copy of the report here. April 6, 2011 2010-11 Health Care Research Journal Club Ends with Presentation by President and CEO of Le Bonheur Children's Health Care At the April 6, 2011 Health Care Research Journal Club meeting sponsored by the Center, Meri Armour, President and CEO of Le Bonheur Children’s Hospital gave a talk on hospital and physician alignment in the post-reform environment. More than 30 faculty, students, and invited guests from the Memphis health care community attended the well-delivered presentation. This talk concluded the 2010-11 Health Care Research Journal Club presentation series. The 2011-12 season begins in September 2011. February 1, 2011 New Report on the Effects of Health Care Reform in Shelby County MLCHE has published a new report detailing the likely effects of health care reform on residents of Shelby County. The report addresses the number of newly insured and changes in the use of health care services. It also discusses the effects on hospitals in terms of the amount of uncompensated care they provide. Finally, it looks at the total economic impact of health care reform in Shelby County. The report was written in collaboration with the Sparks Business Bureau and with funding from the Assisi Foundation. You can access a copy of the report here . July 20, 2010 Health Care Research Journal Club We are starting our club meetings early this academic year! Health reform and new forms of delivery are on the minds of many people. To stimulate discussion and idea exchange, we are very fortunate to have Bill Breen and Jennifer Gilbert as our presenters to kick off the fall series of Health Care Research Journal Club. The meeting is on August 18, 2010 in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Seating is limited so RSVP soon to reserve your place. July 8, 2010 Potentially Avoidable Hospitalizations MLCHE has published an updated Issue Brief about potentially avoidable hospitalizations. This Issue Brief contains new profiles for each of the four major counties in Tennessee: Davidson, Hamilton, Knox, and Shelby. You can download the new Issue Brief by clicking here . July 1, 2010 Healthcare Reform The Asissi Foundation awarded a grant to MLCHE Director Cyril Chang to study the effects of the new Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) on Shelby County residents. MLCHE has partnered with the Sparks Business Bureau for this study. Check back soon for results or sign up for notifications on the Contact Us page. Mailing Lists MLCHE now has several topic-based mailing lists, including alerts for new publications. Please visit the Contact Us page for more information and to sign up. About Us Research Publications Resources Other U of M Research Centers Staff &amp; Associates Policies &amp; Annual Reports Contact Us About Us What does the MLCHE do? Your first step starts here! Publications Stay connected with our research-active faculty. Click here to see some of our most recent publications. Staff and Associates Learn more about the people that compose the MLCHE! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .