#http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/ad-violin.php
Artist Diploma - Violin - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Home Music Future Students Artist Diploma - Violin Memphis Symphony Orchestra Artists-in-Residence and the University of Memphis Artist Diploma in Violin Fall 2016 Entry Information The Memphis Symphony Orchestra offers a two-year Artist-in-Residence program in partnership with the University of Memphis. Students enrolled in the program work toward the Artist Diploma in Violin and receive a full-tuition waiver and a $6,000-stipend. Admission to the program is based upon a live audition before a panel representing the Memphis Symphony Orchestra and the University of Memphis string area faculty and also upon the applicant's full acceptance by the University of Memphis Graduate School. Auditions will be held for applicants who have been invited to audition after participating in a screening process. The Memphis Symphony Orchestra exists to create meaningful experiences through music and fulfills this with a vision of community service through artistry, education, and community engagement. Since 1952, the Memphis Symphony Orchestra has been an economic, artistic, and educational force in the Mid-South. Today more than six hundred musicians, staff, and volunteers in the Memphis Symphony Orchestra, the Memphis Symphony Chorus, and the Memphis Symphony League operate with a $4 million dollar budget to present symphonic music to radio, television and live audiences of more than half a million people annually. The Artist Diploma is a post-baccalaureate program, designed for those ready to embark on performing careers but desiring to delve further into mastering the artistry and craft of the violin within a supportive university environment. It offers opportunities to perform regularly with the Memphis Symphony Orchestra while studying with violin faculty at the University of Memphis. Artist Diploma students receive weekly lessons leading to two required violin recitals. The Artist Diploma curriculum offers considerable flexibility to the individual student. In addition to studio violin lessons, students take part in an orchestral excerpts course with the Concertmaster of the Memphis Symphony Orchestra, perform in the University Symphony Orchestra, and have the opportunity to take electives. Artist Diploma students may enroll in any graduate or undergraduate class to best meet their individual needs. For more information about the curriculum, see the Graduate Handbook . Four Artist-in-Residence positions will be open in Fall 2016. Violinists must pass a screening and be invited to audition. The deadline date for submissions for screening is Monday, January 1, 2016. Auditions will be held on Saturday, February 20, 2016 and Saturday, February 27, 2016 in the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music building on the University of Memphis campus. Audition requirements are: two movements from a Bach solo sonata or partita, first movement of a romantic concerto, and three contrasting excerpts: Strauss Don Juan, first page; Mozart Symphony no. 39 in E-flat Major, first movement, beginning to bar 97; and Brahms Symphony no. 4 in E minor, movement 4, bar 33 to letter D. To make your online application, we recommend that you use Google Chrome, Safari, or Firefox browsers. To participate in the screening, submit a Graduate Application online . You must log-in to Decision Desk with your name and create a password. Decision Desk charges $15 per application submission, payable with a debit card. The online fee is not refundable. Applying online allows faculty to review your application in the most timely fashion, and is the easiest and fastest way to apply to the School of Music. You will be able to Save and Exit your application, and go back until it is complete. Once your application is submitted, you will be able to revisit but not change the content of your application except for resending your recommendation requests. For technical assistance with your application, contact DecisionDesk . For non-technical assistance, contact music admissions . As a part of your application you will be asked to submit your curriculum vitae and your repertoire list. Be prepared to indicate the names and email addresses of two recommenders who will be notified about your request for recommendation. Please upload video material of you performing an exposition of the first movement of a standard concerto and two orchestral excerpts of your choice. You will be asked to provide titles and composers of your audition pieces. This, in addition to basic contact information and questions about your musical experience and education, constitutes the online screening application. Timetable Submit screening materials by Monday, January 1. Applicants will be invited to audition by Friday, January 5. On Monday, January 8, applicants invited to audition should contact Music Admissions regarding their audition day and applications to the School of Music and to the University of Memphis, or call 901.678.3766. Live auditions held on February 20 and February 27, 2016. Information for those who will be invited to audition Artist Diploma in Violin applicants must be accepted by audition and by the University of Memphis. Applications to the University of Memphis Graduate School must be made by March 1, 2016. An undergraduate degree is required. GRE or MAT exams are not required of Artist Diploma – Violin applicants. On the University application select "Artist Diploma in Music CERT" as your planned course of study. Deadline date for International Students to apply to Graduate Admissions for the fall semester is May 1 however it is suggested that international students allow four months for documents to arrive and be processed. All applicants whose native language is not English must supply results of the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). For more information about acceptance as a graduate student at the University of Memphis, see the Graduate School website . Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .