#http://www.memphis.edu/umdegree/faqs.php
UMdegree Frequently Asked Questions - UMdegree - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UMdegree For Students For Advisors FAQs Home UMdegree UMdegree Frequently Asked Questions UMdegree: Making Plans for Graduation What is UMdegree? What is an audit? Can I access UMdegree on any computer? Can I register for classes in UMdegree? Who can use UMdegree? How current will my information be in UMdegree? Are my grades visible in UMdegree? Can I see how many classes I have left to fulfill my requirements? Will I be able to plan for future courses? Can I see a list of all the classes I've taken? What do I do if I believe my academic information is incorrect? If I have additional questions about UMdegree, whom do I contact? What is UMdegree? UMdegree is a web-based tool to help students and advisors monitor progress toward degree completion. UMdegree looks at the degree requirements in the Undergraduate Catalog and your coursework completed to produce an easy to read report. The audit (worksheet) is divided into blocks of requirements. Check boxes exist within each block to easily outline what courses and requirements are complete or in progress. See the legend at the bottom of the worksheet for symbol definitions. UMdegree allows students and their advisors to plan for future coursework. What is an audit? A degree audit is a report that compares your courses and grades to the required courses and grades for your program of study. The results of that comparison are called degree audits. Can I access UMdegree on any computer? You may access UMdegree through myMemphis, UMdegree channel on the student tab (advisor or faculty tab for advisors). You can access myMemphis with any computer that has access to the Internet. Can I register for classes in UMdegree? No. Registration will continue to be handled through the link in myMemphis. Who can use UMdegree? All undergraduate students will have audits produced in UMdegree. Advisors have access to UMdegree. Students in the MSW program and the Online/Professional MBA will soon also be able to use UMdegree. How current will my information be in UMdegree? The information in UMdegree is refreshed each weekday night. As changes are made to the student record (grade changes; classes added or dropped) the changes are available in UMdegree the next business day. Are my grades visible in UMdegree? Yes. Once grades have been processed at the end of the semester they are viewable in UMdegree. Can I see how many classes I have left to fulfill my requirements? Yes, you may view your remaining requirements in two ways. First, your UMdegree worksheet will outline requirements "still needed" in the context of the total set of requirements for your degree and major. A second way to see how many classes you have left is to use the UMdegree Registration Checklist, which outlines only requirements still needed. Find the Registration Checklist on the pull down menu labeled "Format:" at the top of the UMdegree worksheet. Will I be able to plan for future courses? You may use the UMdegree Planner (Planner Tab in UMdegree) to begin planning for graduation. This drag and drop interface will allow you to "move" courses from the "still needed" areas of your worksheet to the semester by semester planner. More instructions are available in the help link on the UMdegree Planner tab. Once you have planned for future courses, you will see a link for "More information about these courses" which will show you if the courses are offered next semester and if they are still available. Can I see a list of all the classes I've taken? Yes. On the Worksheet tab in UMdegree, click on the Class History link at the top for a list of courses taken at UofM as well as transfer courses. This is not to be considered a transcript as repeated courses are not noted on this class history. What do I do if I believe my academic information is incorrect? Ask your advisor for assistance. The first step is to clarify what information you believe is wrong. If you need additional help identifying what is wrong, contact your advisor. If the advisor believes a technical error exists on the worksheet, email umdegree@memphis.edu If I have additional questions about UMdegree, whom do I contact? For additional questions, email umdegree@memphis.edu or call the UMdegree Office at (901) 678-2783. Apply Now! Ready to get started? Apply to the University of Memphis Now! myMemphis Your source for personalized online resources! Contact Us Have Questions? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/15/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .