#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/bus/mktg.php
MKTG Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning MKTG Courses MARKETING (MKTG) NOTE: Students taking Business courses will be charged an additional $30 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MKTG 7230-39–8230-39. Special Topics in Marketing and Supply Chain Management. (3). Special study of problems in marketing. Topics areas change each semester as determined by relevant developments in marketing. Course may be repeated once with a change in content. Current topic listed in online class listings. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 7060 or permission of Faculty Director of Master’s Programs. MKTG 7060 - Marketing Management (3) For graduate students with undergraduate degrees in fields other than business administration. Marketing management as it relates to product, price, place, and promotional activities in both profit and nonprofit organizations; external environment as it affects marketing. MKTG 7140 - Global Strategic Marketing (3) Marketing strategy and in-depth analysis of issues impacting global management of marketing, including: interrelationships among global business environments and strategies, analysis value creating global strategies, competitive intelligence gathering, customer segment analysis, integrated marketing technologies, customer relationship management. MKTG 7170 - Multinational Mktg Sem (3) Emphasis on the cross-cultural aspects of multinational marketing through case studies and individual research; execution of marketing concepts and theories in different cultures and environments; similarities and differences of applications and results. MKTG 7213 - Research Methodology (3) Business research methods and tools; exploratory, descriptive, and causal research designs; primary and secondary sources of data; hands on experience with univariate and multivariate analysis techniques; emphasis on the interpretation and communication of research findings to aid decision makers. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MKTG 7251 - Ethics In Business (1.5) Ethical frameworks, theories, and definitions available for use in ethical business decision-making; legalization of business ethics, and processes involved in developing a business code of ethics; ability to recognize and identify ethical issues in business decision-making emphasized. MKTG 7510 - Negotiation Strategies (3) Application of negotiation strategies and tactics in a variety of business, non-profit, and political environments; emphasis on collaborative and competitive styles of negotiating. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Faculty Director of Master's Programs. MKTG 7511 - Market Driven Quality (3) Application of TQM principles and techniques in marketing operations; emphasis on measuring and analyzing quality from customer's perspective. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Faculty Director of Master's Programs. MKTG 7520 - Medical Dev New Prod Dev (3) Covers strategic planning and policy for new products, opportunity analysis, idea generation and concept development, project evaluation, product design and development, prototyping and testing, product launch and commercialization, and various product management tools. PREREQUISITES: MKTG 7140, SCMS 7315, HADM 7718. MKTG 7540 - Applied Consumer Behavior (3) Application of basic and advanced concepts of consumer behavior in business to consumer and business to business contexts; application of value based marketing to acquisition, development and maintenance of profitable customer relationships; psychological underpinnings of consumer behavior; exploring consumer behavior in a multi cultural environment. Prerequisite: MKTG 7140 or equivalent. MKTG 7542 - Retail Marketing Strategy (3) Focus on strategic role of retailing in the distribution of consumer goods and services; understanding consumer insights and execution of critical factors for building retail brands; role of new technology and media in developing multi channel retailing strategies. Prerequisite: MKTG 7140 or equivalent. MKTG 7544 - Integ Mktg Comm/Branding (3) Application of theories in marketing communications and marketing psychology to understanding consumers responses to new media; study changing media trends; study theories on branding such as brand personalities, branding services, people as brands and brand communities; building and measuring brand equity; leveraging brands for brand extension and managing a brand portfolio in a global context. Prerequisite: MKTG 7140 or equivalent. MKTG 7546 - Mktg in Digital Environment (3) Studying and applying marketing orientation in a digital environment; understanding emerging business models for the online market space; studying and implementing eCommerce project management techniques; understand the converging trends in the digital world in relation to consumers and consumer segments. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 7140 or equivalent. MKTG 7555 - Creativity and Innovation (2) Focused analysis and discussion of imaginative, creative processes used for innovation in business contexts; explores theoretical underpinnings of creativity and innovation, with special attention to environmental effects on individual and group creativity; creativity knowledge is applied in areas of ideation, innovation management, and product design. MKTG 7910 - Problems in Marketing (1-6) Directed independent research projects in an area selected by the student with the approval of the faculty member supervising and permission of the Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved by Ph.D. coordinator prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MKTG 7996 - Thesis (3-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MKTG 8215 - Ethical Criticism (3) Ethical analyses and critiques of scientific writing; deconstructive strategies of reading; emphasis on literary and rhetorical tactics employed in presentation of marketing theory. MKTG 8216 - Measurement/Stuc Equa (3) Theoretical and methodological issues in research design, measurement, and analysis; development of measures of constructs and empirical assessment of measurement properties; model development and testing to expand theory; covariance structure analysis to test measurement and structural models. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 8540 or equivalent. MKTG 8217 - Theory Const & Eval (3) Analyses of development of theory in marketing and management; critiques of dominant paradigms; examination of tenets of philosophy of science as they relate to theory generation and testing. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor MKTG 8222 - Adv Mktg Management (3) Seminar focusing on the major research streams in marketing management; analyses of foundations of marketing management theory; emphasis on assessing the conceptual development of marketing constructs; examination of current journal articles to assess new research approaches to improve marketing theory and practice. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor MKTG 8223 - Adv Consumer Behavior (3) Survey of theoretic and methodological contributions of consumer behavior research in areas of human information processing, information search, complex decision-making, motivation, and attitude; emphasis on tracing major research streams in the literature through examination of current journal articles; research paper required. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MKTG 8225 - Adv Topics Marketing Mgmt (3) Seminar on the primary research issues in the field of marketing management; emphasis on the conceptual development of marketing constructs. Course includes discussion and analysis of both conventional and state-of-the art research approaches to the investigation of problems in marketing management. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MKTG 8910 - Problems in Marketing (1-6) Directed independent research projects in an area selected by the student with the approval of the faculty member supervising and permission of the Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved by Ph.D. coordinator prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MKTG 8930 - Adv Research Methods (3) Detailed coverage of topics relevant to conducting research in behavioral sciences, particularly marketing, including sampling techniques; experimental design concepts (blocking designs, multi-factor, use of repeated measures); development and evaluation of measurement instruments; application of multivariate techniques to marketing problems. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 8540 or equivalent. SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT SCIENCES (SCMS) NOTE: Students taking Business courses will be charged an additional $30 per credit hour. SCMS 7020 - Statistical Methods (3) (ISDS 7020) Statistical concepts and methodology useful in understanding, assessing, and controlling operations of business and economic society. PREREQUISITE: ECON 6810 or equivalent. SCMS 7080 - Prncpl Prdctn & Oprtns (3) (ISDS 7080) Role of P/OM function and relationship to other functional areas; basic production techniques and tools for both manufacturing and service operations. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 3711 or 7020. SCMS 7110 - Quantitative Tools for Mgrs (3) (ISDS 7110) Statistical concepts and tools, optimization and simulation techniques useful in understanding, assessing, and controlling operations of business and society. SCMS 7120 - Mgmt Science/Decsn Tech (3) (ISDS 7120) Insights into model-assisted decision making and Management Science/Operations Research: value focused thinking in problem framing, modeling, analysis, and communication; analyses of complexities related to enterprise-wide decision technologies; building and analyzing sequential decisions, simultaneous decisions, and dynamic systems; emphasis on supply chain modeling, visualization, and analysis. NOTE: Open only to degree-seeking students. SCMS 7170 - Intnl Prodctn Oper Mgmt (3) (ISDS 7170) Tools and techniques to capture the opportunities of world markets for enhancing competitiveness of a business through higher productivity and quality in a time-based mode of operations; effective resource utilization and reliable supply-chain strategies emphasized. Focus on creating and managing global suppliers and global customers. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 7080 or permission of instructor. SCMS 7201 - Pharm Supply Chain Mgmt (3) (ISDS 7201) Concepts and tools for assessment, design, and management of modern pharmaceutical supply chains; includes strategic supply chain performance, metrics, and drivers, network design and assessment, strategic sourcing, supply and demand forecasting, aggregate planning, inventory resource planning, transportation network design and management, pricing and revenue management, customer relationship management, supply chain risk management, and enabling role of information technology across the supply chain. SCMS 7310 - Sem Prod Operatns Mgt (3) (ISDS 7/8310) Problems and issues encountered in productions and operations management environment; master planning, capacity management, resources planning, and shop floor management; managerial decision-making process for improving productivity and better utilization of scarce resources; implementation problems and solutions; manufacturing and service operations. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 8510 or equivalent or permission of instructor. SCMS 7311 - Seminar in SCM (3) (ISDS 7/8311) In-depth approach to integrated supply chain management (SCM) as a key element of the competitive strategy for supply chain member organizations; topics include key management, logistics, information systems and technologies, organizational relationships and global issues. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 7310 or permission of instructor. SCMS 7312 - Sem Val Chain Res Mgmt (3) (ISDS 7/8312) Multifunctional analysis of problems and issues associated with planning critical resources in the value chain of a business; emphasizes acquiring, consuming, and disposing of key resources in an ethical and socially responsible manner to provide a business with sustainable strategic competitive advantage while delivering maximum value to the customer. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 7310 or equivalent or permission of department chair. SCMS 7313 - Global Operations Mgmt (3) (ISDS 7/8313) Acquisition, transformation, and distribution of goods and services within the global supply chain; covers concepts, tools, and strategies to design and manage operations, such as strategic implications, performance measurement, process management, sourcing, operations design, quality, inventory, logistics, enabling information systems and technology, and global issues among other topics. SCMS 7315 - Dsgn/Mgmt Sup Chns Biom Ind (3) (ISDS 7315) Concepts and tools for designing and managing modern supply chains in the biomedical industry; includes purchasing and sourcing, demand forecasting, inventory resource planning, domestic and international transportation, customer relationship management, facility location, service-response logistics, and performance measurement. SCMS 7425 - Determ Model Mgmt Sci (3) (ISDS 7/8425) Deterministic models concerned with optimal allocation of limited resources among competing activities; business applications of linear programming including duality and post-optimality analysis as well as branch-and-bound and network flow methods of integer linear programming. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 7120 or equivalent. SCMS 7430 - Adv Quan Tpcs Bus Dec (3) (ISDS 7/8430) Advanced study of management decision-making using various quantitative methods of analysis; specialized applications of specific foundation courses in management science. PREREQUISITES: SCMS 7120 and ECON 6810 or equivalent. SCMS 7431 - Applied Modeling (3) (ISDS 7/8431) The application of management science modeling across business disciplines through readings, case studies, and projects; computer modeling languages utilized. PREREQUISITES: SCMS 7120 and business calculus. SCMS 7450 - Intg SCM And Tech (3) (ISDS 7/8450) Modeling techniques in designing and operating effective supply chains; current modeling applications, integration of informational and physical supply chains, operational planning and inventory management; organizational adaptation to modeling systems and applications. PREREQUISITES: SCMS 7120 and 7311. SCMS 7921 - Sem SCMS Research (3) (ISDS 7/8921) Some statistical techniques available to business researcher; topics may include: contingency tables, bivariate correlation analysis, regression analysis, ANOVA, discriminant analysis, and factor analysis; use of computerized statistical packages and interpretation of results of packages. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 2711 or 7020 or equivalent. SCMS 8310 - Sem Prod Operatns Mgt (3) (ISDS 7/8310) Problems and issues encountered in productions and operations management environment; master planning, capacity management, resources planning, and shop floor management; managerial decision-making process for improving productivity and better utilization of scarce resources; implementation problems and solutions; manufacturing and service operations. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 8510 or equivalent or permission of instructor. SCMS 8311 - Seminar in SCM (3) (ISDS 7/8311) In-depth approach to integrated supply chain management (SCM) as a key element of the competitive strategy for supply chain member organizations; topics include key management, logistics, information systems and technologies, organizational relationships and global issues. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 7310 or permission of instructor. SCMS 8312 - Sem Val Chain Res Mgmt (3) (ISDS 7/8312) Multifunctional analysis of problems and issues associated with planning critical resources in the value chain of a business; emphasizes acquiring, consuming, and disposing of key resources in an ethical and socially responsible manner to provide a business with sustainable strategic competitive advantage while delivering maximum value to the customer. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 7310 or equivalent or permission of department chair. SCMS 8313 - Global Operations Mgmt (3) (ISDS 7/8313) Acquisition, transformation, and distribution of goods and services within the global supply chain; covers concepts, tools, and strategies to design and manage operations, such as strategic implications, performance measurement, process management, sourcing, operations design, quality, inventory, logistics, enabling information systems and technology, and global issues among other topics. SCMS 8425 - Determ Model Mgmt Sci (3) (ISDS 7/8425) Deterministic models concerned with optimal allocation of limited resources among competing activities; business applications of linear programming including duality and post-optimality analysis as well as branch-and-bound and network flow methods of integer linear programming. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 7120 or equivalent. SCMS 8430 - Adv Quan Tpcs Bus Dec (3) (ISDS 7/8430) Advanced study of management decision-making using various quantitative methods of analysis; specialized applications of specific foundation courses in management science. PREREQUISITES: SCMS 7120 and ECON 6810 or equivalent. SCMS 8431 - Applied Modeling (3) (ISDS 7/8431) The application of management science modeling across business disciplines through readings, case studies, and projects; computer modeling languages utilized. PREREQUISITES: SCMS 7120 and business calculus. SCMS 8450 - Intg SCM And Tech (3) (ISDS 7/8450) Modeling techniques in designing and operating effective supply chains; current modeling applications, integration of informational and physical supply chains, operational planning and inventory management; organizational adaptation to modeling systems and applications. PREREQUISITES: SCMS 7120 and 7311. SCMS 8530 - Stat Tech Business Rsch (3) (ISDS 8530) Introduction to statistical methods pertinent to business research; hypotheses testing procedures, association analyses, regression and forecasting techniques, and nonparametric methods; intensive research orientation and use of statistical software; critical review of current usage of various research and data analysis techniques. PREREQUISITE: ISDSSCMS 7020 or equivalent and working knowledge of SPSS. SCMS 8540 - Multv Analys/Bus Rsch (3) (ISDS 8540) Multivariate techniques available to the business researcher; use of computerized statistical packages and their interpretation. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 8530 or equivalent. SCMS 8921 - Sem SCMS Research (3) (ISDS 7/8921) Some statistical techniques available to business researcher; topics may include: contingency tables, bivariate correlation analysis, regression analysis, ANOVA, discriminant analysis, and factor analysis; use of computerized statistical packages and interpretation of results of packages. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 2711 or 7020 or equivalent. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .