#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/fcbe/econ.php
ECON - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions ECON ECON (ECON) ECONOMICS William Smith, Ph.D., Chair Room 400, FCBE Administration Building Students must have earned a minimum of 45 credit hours and have met specific course prerequisites with a minimum grade of “C” to be eligible for all 3000 and 4000 level courses. In addition to these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower division business courses with a minimum grade of “C” in each; (2) minimum of 2.25 GPA (2.5 for accounting majors) in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1830, 1421, or 1910, and (3) 45 hours of course work including MATH 1830, 1421, or 1910, COMM 2381 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements-General Requirements). A surcharge of $35 per credit hour for 3000 and 4000 level courses and $35 per credit hours for 6000-9000 level courses has been approved by the Tennessee Board of Regents. The purpose of the surcharge on these business courses is to guarantee the continuous improvement of the college and compliance with the standards of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business International (AACSB International). In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ECON 3020-29. Special Topics in Economics. (3). Current economic issues and problems in the United States; emphasis on application of tools and analytical methods. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2010, 2020. ECON 4760-69. Special Topics in Economics. (1-3). Topics are varied and in online class listings. May be repeated with a change in topic. PREREQUISITE: permission of department chair. ECON 2010 - Intro to Macroeconomics (3) (2110). Nature and functions of the national economy in a global context. Includes consumption and investment behavior, national income and product determination, fiscal and monetary policy, and international trade. [G] ECON 2020 - Intro to Microeconomics (3) (2120). Operation of the market economy at the individual and firm level; supply and demand analysis, consumer behavior, behavior of firms in both competitive and monopoly environments, income distribution theory, and effects of government intervention in the market economy. [G] ECON 3123 - Economics of Sport (3) Tools and concepts of microeconomics to the sport world; individual, team and league behavior with the context of economic theory; player salaries, profit maximization, stadium financing, college athletics. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2010. ECON 3210 - Labor Economics (3) Introduction to institutional aspects of American labor force and its organization wage and employment theory, economic role of collective bargaining, and basic ingredients of public policy toward labor organization. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2020. ECON 3310 - Microeconomic Theory (3) Intermediate approach to price theory; stress on market mechanism as device for resource allocation; attention to uses of basic microeconomic concepts in analysis of economic problems and in formulation of policy. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2020. ECON 3320 - Macroeconomic Theory (3) Intermediate approach to social income accounting and to functional relationships between important aggregate economic variables as well as to forecasting and social policy implications. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2010. ECON 3610 - Money and Banking (3) Monetary and banking history of leading countries with special emphasis on theory of money and banking in United States, deposit and earnings operations of individual banks, interbank and central bank relations. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2010. ECON 4112 - Organizational Econ (3) Analysis of markets and organizations, competitive advantage, production and cost, consumer and market demand, strategic management decision-making, decision rights, incentives and rewards, and structure of performance systems. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2020. ECON 4120 - Economic Forecasting (3) Current economic thinking on problems of recession and inflation as background to economic forecasting; methodologies of forecasting analyzed with examples of each. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 3711, or equivalent. ECON 4210 - Public Economics (3) Govenment taxation and spending programs and effect on markets; production and provision of public goods; externalities, Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security; behavior in output and input markets; theory of optimal taxation. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2020 with a grade of "C" or better. ECON 4220 - Urban/Regional Economics (3) Examines issues relevant to cities, including the reasons why cities exist, how economic activity is organized within cities; transportation, poverty, crime, development, public finance. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2020. ECON 4230 - Economics of Ecology (3) Examines the market system of resource allocation in the larger context of the natural world and ecological system. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2020. ECON 4240 - Economics of Vice (3) Applications of economic theory and analysis of topics such as crime, dating, sex, drugs, addiction, and music; evaluation of current and potential policies related to these issues. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2020. ECON 4250 - Econ Poverty/Discrimination (3) Measurement, causes, and consequencies of poverty; various policy solutions to poverty; examination of numerous forms of discrimination and how they affect market outcomes. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2020. ECON 4340 - Comparative Economic Systems (3) Factors contributing to differential performance of economic systems, including property rights, information flow, incentive structure, management-labor relations, government policies on technology and competitiveness; emerging trends of system convergence and corporate globalization. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2020. ECON 4350 - International Econ (3) Historical approach to theory of international trade; consideration given to Classical, Neo-Classical and Modern approach to trade theory with emphasis on policy implications of the analysis. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2020 or equivalent. ECON 4351 - Intrntl Monetary Theory/Pol (3) Open economy macroeconomics; examination of payments among nations, foreign exchange markets, determinants of exchange rate policies; national income and foreign exchange, internal and external balance and international factor movements. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2010. ECON 4512 - Behavioral Economics (3) Reconciling the standard economic models with key psychological observations in order to predict and understand phenomena such as loss aversion, trust, reciprocity, present bias, procrastination and self-control. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2010, or permission of instructor. ECON 4550 - Game Theory/Strategic Analysis (3) Study of strategic behavior when parties have opposed, mixed, or similar interest; sequential and simultaneous move games, pure mixed strategies, various equilibrium concepts, and repeated games. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2020. ECON 4560 - Contemporary Econ Thought (3) Topics relevant to modern economics from an interdisciplinary perspective; exploration of the role of psychology, sociology, and political science in economic theory and policy. Students will be introduced to behavioral economics, behavioral finance, bounded rationality, satisficing, and decision making under uncertainty. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2010 and ECON 2020. ECON 4561 - Economics of Financial Crisis (3) Causes that precipitated the financial crisis of 2008 and the ensuing Great Recession; historical precedent for the crisis. ECON 4740 - Health Care Economics (3) Unique nature of health care as economic good, health care market and its participants including patients, physicians, and hospitals, and financing and delivery of personal health care in United States and other countries. ECON 4810 - Quant Economics Analysis (3) Introduction to application of mathematical tools in business and economics; review of matrix algebra, differential and integral calculus; optimization with and without constraints; comparative statistics. ECON 4820 - Econometrics (3) Introduction to statistical procedures used to estimate and test quantitative economic theories, using microcomputer software for regression analysis. PREREQUISITE: SCMS 2710 or MATH 1530 or equivalent as approved by instructor. ECON 4910 - Problems in Economics (1-3) Students investigate issues surrounding selected economic problems and develop reports of that investigation. May be repeated to maximum of 3 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: upper division standing and approval of department chair. ECON 4911 - Internship in Economics (1-6) Internship in business organization to gain on-the-job experience. Project to be approved and supervised by departmental faculty. Credit allowed only after acceptance of report. PREREQUISITE: 2.75 overall GPA and completed 15 hours in Upper Division core. ECON 4996 - Honors Thesis in Economics (3) Independent research open only to students enrolled in Economics Honors Program. Honors thesis supervised by three-faculty committee selected by student and approved by Economics Honors Committee. PREREQUISITE: permission of Economics Honors Committee. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .