#http://www.memphis.edu/libraries/about/policies/study_carrel.php
Study Carrel Policy - Libraries - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Libraries About Services Resources Instruction Special Collections Technology About Hours Jobs Staff Directory Library Faculty and Staff Portal Home Libraries About Study Carrel Policy Priority of Assignment User Responsibilities Libraries' Responsibilities Application Procedures Libraries' Material Policies Carrel Inspections Carrel Keys Study carrels on the third and fourth floors of the Ned R. McWherter Library are available for individual assignment to support study and research by eligible library users. Study carrels are equipped with electrical outlets, wireless Internet access, desks, and cabinets. Carrels are not to be used for office or conference space. Applications for carrels are available from the Check-Out Desk and online . The use of study carrels is governed by the following policies: Priority of Assignment Carrel assignments will be made according to the following priorities on a first-come, first-served basis: Check-out periods for study carrels range from one semester to one academic year. Graduate students Faculty Administrators Visiting scholars Retired faculty Others with special needs User Responsibilities A carrel is to be used exclusively by the person to whom it has been assigned and cannot be loaned or transferred to another party. Nothing is to be permanently posted or attached in any way to walls or furniture. The inside and outside of the carrel door glass should not be blocked by posters, papers, a filing cabinet, etc. Personal equipment such as computers, iPads, Kindles, iPods, calculators, study lamps, or desk clocks is permitted. Electrical appliances such as microwave ovens, space heaters, coffee pots and personal furniture are prohibited. Use of tobacco products, illegal drugs, or alcoholic beverages is not allowed in study carrels. (University Policy: UM1614 Rev. 1 ; UM1563 Rev. 1 ) Possession of any weapon in the study carrels is strictly prohibited (University Policy: UM1505 ). Personal items of value left in the carrel should be locked in the cabinets provided for this purpose. The Libraries will not be responsible for damage or loss of any personal property or other items left in the carrel. Libraries' Responsibilities Assignment of study carrels is intended to accommodate the need for a place where faculty or students can conduct uninterrupted research. Carrels not in regular use should be surrendered. Carrel assignments are confidential. Carrels may only be used during McWherter Library’s operating hours . Carrels may not be used as a mailing address location. Mail addressed to a carrel will be returned to the sender. Messages will not be delivered to carrels, nor will carrel holders be paged. Application Procedures Library users who are eligible may apply for an individual library carrel. An application/registration form may be picked up at and returned to the Check Out Desk. Applications are also available online . Libraries' Material Policies All circulating library materials in the carrel must be properly checked out to the assigned occupant. All items will be subject to regular loan policies and overdue fines and fees. Periodicals, Reference books, and other non-circulating materials should not be left in the study carrel. Carrel Inspections Libraries staff will periodically inspect carrels. All library-owned materials will be removed if not properly checked out or if overdue. Fines and fees will be assessed on overdue materials. Any prohibited materials will be removed and held at the Check-Out Desk. Carrel Keys Carrel keys may not be duplicated or loaned to other individuals. Keys must be returned to the Check-Out Desk at the end of the loan period. If keys are not returned, a fee of $25 per key will be charged accordingly. Lost keys should be reported immediately to the Check-Out Desk. Replacement keys will be made available after payment of required charges. Send all inquiries to Sharon Tucker, via email at stucker@memphis.edu or for additional assistance, call (901) 678-8248. Revised, Spring 2011 About Hours Jobs Staff Directory Library Faculty and Staff Portal My Library Account Review your library account for due dates and more. Interlibrary Loan Request books, articles, and other research materials from other libraries. Reserve space Group study and presentation spaces available in the library. Ask-a-Librarian Got a question? Got a problem? Ask Us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .