#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11503
Loewenberg Chair of Excellence/Director for Nursing Research Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Loewenberg Chair of Excellence/Director for Nursing Research Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC443 Advertised Title Loewenberg Chair of Excellence/Director for Nursing Research Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 004714 Category Full-Time Faculty Department School of Nursing Position Summary The successful candidate will: 1) Provide leadership and expertise in research by demonstrating an ongoing program of funded research. 2) Direct and develop a strong scholarly and research focus with the Loewenberg School of Nursing ( LSON ), and promote collaborative and interdisciplinary research. 3) Direct and mentor junior faculty in identifying internal and external funding resources and publication opportunities. The Loewenberg Chair of Excellence/Director for Nursing Research is a member of the LSON leadership team. Other responsibilities are negotiable depending on candidate&#8217;s interest and experience but are normally a combination of teaching and professional outreach. The Loewenberg Chair of Excellence may teach one to two courses each academic year, if applicable, and reports to the Dean. Minimum Position Qualifications 1) Graduate degree in nursing from an NLN or CCNE accredited program and a doctoral degree in nursing or related area. 2) Distinguished career in teaching, research, and service in nursing with an ongoing program of funded research. 3) The ideal candidate will possess an outstanding record of funded research in community health, public health, health disparities, or related areas of scholarly inquiry. 4) The candidate will be qualified as an Associate Professor or a full professor. Special Conditions The Loewenberg School of Nursing ( LSON ) offers both baccalaureate and master&#8217;s degree programs with a strong liberal arts component. Faculty members are actively involved in research and scholarly work. The graduate programs leading to the Master&#8217;s of Science in Nursing include concentrations in Nursing Administration, Nursing Education, Advanced Practice Nursing (Family Nurse Practitioner), and Nursing Informatics. A post master certification in the area of Family Nurse Practitioner is also available. The programs are accredited by CCNE and approved by the Tennessee Board of Nursing. Interdisciplinary research on and off the University of Memphis campus and advanced practice of nursing opportunities are abundant. The LSON has collaborated closely and successfully with the many health care institutions and community agencies located in Memphis, as well as in the Mid-South region. The Loewenberg School of Nursing is situated in the $60M Community Health Building where the Nursing Science Research Suite is designed for Chair of Excellence. Ongoing Research assistant, start-up funding, and relevant research support is provided. Posting Date 11/16/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range Salary is highly competitive Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Instructions to Applicant regarding references Please provide a list of 3 references to include: address, telephone number and email. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Cover Letter Curriculum Vitae References List Optional Documents