#http://www.memphis.edu/mail/rental.php
Post Office Box Rental Information - Mail Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Mail Services Staff Directory Mailbox Rentals Services Mailing Info Home Mail Services Post Office Box Rental Information Post Office Box Rental Information Post office boxes are available for rent to faculty, staff, and students. The rental fee is $15.00 per semester for students and $44.00 per year for Faculty and Staff. To purchase a University of Memphis mailbox rental do one of the following: Make your initial purchase for your box rental online! Just go to our online store, and make your selection for a new mailbox rental or a renewal. Once you have paid via credit card or checking/savings account, you will be sent an e-mail with instructions for how to pick up your mailbox key. For additional information, read more about our online mailbox purchase process. Visit the Bursar's Office in Wilder Tower to make an initial payment for the box rental. Then come to the Campus Postal Station located in 259 University Center, present your payment receipt from the Bursar, fill out the rental agreement, and we will issue you a box number and key. If further assistance regarding this process is needed, please call 678.2366 or 678.2380. Dormitory Students Students who reside in dormitories must also rent a post office box in order to receive mail while residing on campus. Proper Addressing Faculty/Staff/Student's Name Faculty/Staff/Student's Post Office Box Number* The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 *Lack of a box number could result in mail being returned to the sender. Notification Notification in writing will be made when articles too big for the box are received. These articles must be picked up between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. at the post office contract station in 259 University Center. The notice and an ID must be presented at the time of pickup. Mail Forwarding Faculty, staff, and students who will not be renewing their rental of a campus post office box should fill out a change of address card so that mail can be forwarded. Failure to provide a forwarding address will result in mail being returned to the sender. A box cancellation notice must also be signed to avoid a continual charge for rental. The box cancellation notice and the change of address card is available at the post office contract station located in 259 University Center. Hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00am to 4:30pm. Unsolicited Mail If you receive unsolicited or unwanted mail, simply write "refused" in the piece of mail and return it unopened. Postage is not required for returning mail when it is unopened. Mail which has been refused by the addressee will be returned to sender or disposed of by the Postal Service, in accordance with postal regulations. FedEx Federal Express UPS United Parcel Service Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/19/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .