#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/pdfs/undergraduate_bulletin_1995_1996.pdf
The University of Memphis Undergraduate 12:03:05 PM]The 1995-96 Undergraduate Catalog "The Bulletin" has been designed to provide current and prospective students, faculty, and staff with a comprehensive description of the university and its academic programs, regulations, services and activities. Any recommendations concerning "The Bulletin" , should be addressed to the Director of Curriculum Planning in the Department of Academic Affairs. 1. Campus Directory Academic and administrative listings only. Click here to access the university's electronic phone book. 2. University Calendar for 1995-96 3. Degree Program Planning 4. Description of the University General Description , The Memphis Community , Academic Program Accreditation , Facilities, Research, and Services , TheGraduate School , Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law 5. Services to Students Admissions, Student Aid , Registration and Student Records , Adult Student Development Services , Student Development ,Student Life 6. ExpensesFees and Charges , Application & Registration Fee Information , Miscellaneous Fees , Student Housing , Appeal Procedures 7. Academic Regulations Appeals, Class Attendance , Classification of Students , Scholastic Standards , Additional Means of Earning Credit 8. Graduation from the University General Requirements , General Education , Requirements for Teacher Licensure , Catalog Applicability , Second Bachelor's Degree9. Colleges and Degree Programs 10. Course Descriptions 11. Faculty and Staff 12. Tentative 1996-97 University Calendar The University of Memphis Schedule of Classes The Graduate School The University of Memphis Undergraduate 12:03:05 PM]Curriculum Planning Academic Affairs Student Handbook Thank you for visiting! You have been the 483rd guest who has accessed this page since March 26, 1996. This page is maintained by Jon Tignor in cooperation with the Office of Curriculum Planning. The last update occurred on January 21, 2000, at 06:31 PM. Last Updated: 6/12/15 Campus 12:03:06 PM]CAMPUS DIRECTORY OFFICE BUILDING TELEPHONE (678-XXXX) Academic Counseling Scates Hall 107 2062 Add/Drop Courses See your advisor Admissions/Enrollment Information Administration 153 2101 Freshman Information Administration 229 2111 Transfer Information Administration 229 2111 Readmission Information Undergraduate Administration 229 2111 Graduate Administration 315 4489 Graduate Admissions Information Administration 216 2911 Law School Information Law School 201 2073 International Student Administration 216 2911 Student Relations Administration 159 2169 Alumni Association Alumni Center 2586 Art Museum Communication & Fine Arts 2224 Athletics (Intercollegiate) Athletic Office Bldg. Men 2335 Women 2315 Bursar's Office Administration 176 2243 Calendar of Events Activities University Center 214A 2041 Recreation/IntramuralEvents Physical Education 155 2811 University Center Events University Center 214A 2041 Conferences Fogelman Executive Center 206 3700 Campus Information System (VAX/GOPHER) Administration 134 3881 Campus School Campus School 2285 Career Counseling Scates Hall 106 2228 Center for Athletic Academic Services Fieldhouse 161 2714 Center for Student Development Scates Hall 111 2067 Child Care Center 3875 Tiger Paw South 5059 Class Attendance See your professor Computer Services Administration 112 2406 Continuing Education Richardson Towers 10 2381 Counseling Academic Scates Hall 107 2062 Career Scates Hall 106 2228 Psychological Scates Hall 120 2068 Dean of Students University Center 443 2187 Desoto Office Meeman Journalism 113 2194 Developmental Studies Administration 171 2028 Drop/Add Courses See your advisor Educational Support Program Winfield Dunn 143 2704 Employment/Placement Student (on campus) Scates Hall 212 3680/3708 Student (off campus) Health Center 112 2016 University Placement Scates Hall 315 2239 Teacher Placement Scates Hall 315 2239 Teacher Certification Education 204 2728 Evening Services Director Administration 117 2393 Extended Programs Jackson, TN 5087 Financial Aid Scates Hall 312 4825 Fogelman Executive Center Fogelman Executive Center 206 3700 Food Services Director Jones Hall 2112 Fraternity Sorority Activitie University Center 427 2093 General Education Programs Old Brister Library 115 2783 General Information/University Operator 2000 Grade Appeals See Catalog & your professor Graduate Dean Administration 308 2534 Graduate School Information Administration 315 2531 Graduate Student Association University Center 425 4081 Handicapped Student Services See Student Disability Services Campus 12:03:06 PM]Helmsman Editorial Meeman Journalism 320B 2192 Business Meeman Journalism 318 2191 Identification Cards (New and Replacement) Administration 176 3028 Insurance, Student Health Center 2287 Intensive English for Internationals Winfield Dunn 300 2814 International Studies and Study Abroad Winfield Dunn 300 2814 International Student Advisor University Center 409 4271 Jackson Center Jackson, TN 5087 Library Information 2205 Lost and Found University Center Information 2041 MINI College University Center 425 2995 Minority Affairs University Center 419 2054 New Student Orientation Administration 159 5513 Organizations, Student University Center 427 2093 Parking 3918 Central 2212 Photo Services Meeman Journalism 329 2196 Post Office Jones Hall 107A 2380 Pre-Law Advisor Mitchell Hall 207 4821 President's Office Administration 341 2234 Probation (Academic) Administration 117 2393 Provost's Office Administration 372 2119 Psychological Services Center Psychology 126 2147 Public Safety Administration 151 4357 Publications Office Administration 303 2609 Readmission Information Undergraduate Administration 229 2111 Graduate Administration 315 4489 Registrar Administration 115 2676 Registration/Scheduling Administration 167 2675 Religious Affairs University Center 427 2093 Reservations Tennis, Racquetball, Handball 2801 Residence Life Richardson Towers 011 2295 Director, Reservations, Student Family Housing 2087 Security Administration 151 4357 Speech and Hearing Center 807 Jefferson Avenue 5800 Speech and Hearing Center,Et South Campus Bldg. #44 2009 Student Activities Council University Center 405 2035 Student Aid Scates Hall 312 4825 Student Affairs Administration 377 2114 Student Ambassador Board Alumni Center 213 2586 Student Development Scates Hall 205 5426 Student Disability Services Scates Hall 215 2880 (Telephone or TDD) Student Government Association University Center 411 2051 Student Health Services Health Center 2287 Student Organizations University Center 427 2093 Student Records Academic Administration 119 2671 Telephone Service Jones Hall 101 2999 Testing Center Health Center 111 2428 Theater Box Office Theatre & Communication Arts 2576 Tickets General University Center 117 2043 Athletics Athletics Office Bldg.109 2331 Tiger Fund$ Administration 176 3028 Transcripts Administration 143 3927 Transfer Student Information Administration 215 2111 University Center Operations University Center 105 2031 Information University Center 214 2041 Vending Refunds University Center 214 2041 Visitor Information Center 3641 Central Avenue 2040 Withdrawals Graduate Respective college or school Law Law School 207B 2660 Campus 12:03:06 PM] Undergraduate Administration 119 2671 WUMR-FM 92 Theatre and Dance 3176 Yearbook (Desoto) Meeman Journalism 2194 1995-1996 University 12:03:06 PM]1995-96 UNIVERSITY CALENDAR The calendar is subject to change at any time prior to or during an academic term due to emergencies or causes beyond the reasonable control of the institution, including severe weather, loss of utility services, or orders by federal or state agencies. (TBR 2:04:00:01) FALL SEMESTER 1995 AUGUST 25: New faculty orientation,8:30 A.M General faculty meeting, 2:00 p.m. AUGUST 21-25: FALL 1995 Regular Registration and Drop/Add. For detailed dates and times, see the Schedule of Classes. AUGUST 28: Classes begin. AUGUST 31: Last day to add or to register for Fall 1995 courses. SEPTEMBER 4: Holiday: Labor Day. SEPTEMBER 27: Last day for removing Summer Session "Incomplete" grades. OCTOBER 16: Last day to drop courses. Last day to withdraw from the university. NOVEMBER 22: Last day for making application to the dean of the appropriate undergraduate college for degrees to be conferred in May 1996. NOVEMBER 23-26: Holiday: Thanksgiving. DECEMBER 6: Classes end. DECEMBER 7: Study Day. DECEMBER 8-14: Final examinations.DECEMBER 16: Commencement.SPRING SEMESTER 1996 JANUARY 15: Holiday: Martin Luther King's Birthday. JANUARY 16-19: SPRING 1996 Regular Registration and Drop/Add. For detailed dates and times see the Schedule of Classes. JANUARY 22: Classes begin. JANUARY 25: Last day to add or to register for Spring 1996 courses. JANUARY 30: Last day for removing Fall "Incomplete" grades. MARCH 11: Last day to drop courses. Last day to withdraw from the university. MARCH 17-24: Spring Break. MARCH 22: University offices will be closed for Spring Holiday. APRIL 10: Last day for making application to the dean of the appropriate undergraduate college for degrees to be conferred in August 1996. MAY 1: Classes end. MAY 2: Study Day. MAY 3-9: Final examinations. MAY 10: Commencement.FIRST SUMMER TERM 1996 MAY 30-31: SUMMER 1996 Regular Registration and Drop/Add. For detailed dates and times, see the Schedule of Classes. JUNE 3: Classes begin. JUNE 4: Last day to add or to register for First Term courses. JUNE 18: Last day to drop First Summer Term courses. Last day for First Summer Term students to withdraw. JUNE 24: Last day for removing Spring Semester "Incomplete" grades. 1995-1996 University 12:03:06 PM]JULY 3: First Summer Term classes end. JULY 4: Holiday: Independence Day. JULY 5: First Summer Term final examinations. SECOND SUMMER TERM 1996 JULY 8: SECOND SUMMER 1996 Regular Registration and Drop/Add. For detailed dates and times, see the Schedule of Classes. JULY 9: Second Summer Term classes begin. Last day to add or to register for Second Summer Term courses. JULY 18: Last day for making application to the dean of the appropriate undergraduate college for degrees to be conferred in December 1996. JULY 24: Last day to drop Second Summer Term courses. Last day for Second Summer Term students to withdraw from the university. AUGUST 8: Second Summer Term classes end. AUGUST 9: Second Summer Term final examinations. AUGUST 11: Commencement.EXTENDED SUMMER TERM 1996 MAY 30-31: SUMMER 1996 Regular Registration and Drop/Add. For detailed dates and times, see the Schedule of Classes. JUNE 3: Classes begin. JUNE 4: Last day to add or to register for Extended Term courses. JUNE 24: Last day for removing Spring Semester "Incomplete" grades. JULY 4: Holiday: Independence Day. JULY 4-7: Summer Break. JULY 8: Last day to drop Extended Summer Term courses. Last day for Extended Summer Term students to withdraw from the university. JULY 8: Second Summer 1995 Regular Registration and Drop/Add. For details, see the Schedule of Classes. AUGUST 8: Extended Summer Term classes end. AUGUST 9: Extended Summer Term final examinations AUGUST 11: Commencement.Dead Week. Definition: The four day period preceding final examinations. No student social or athletic functions shall be scheduled during Dead Week. Study Day. Definition: The day prior to final examinations during most regular semesters. No academic activities shall be scheduled on Study Day. No study or review sessions which the student may feel obligated to attend may be scheduled. Final Examination Period. No examination shall be given at a time other than the scheduled time except with written permission from the department chair and the college dean. No social or athletic functions shall be scheduled during the Final Examination Period. Intercollegiate athletics are excepted from the above policies. Degree Program 12:03:07 PM]USING THE CATALOG FOR DEGREE PROGRAM PLANNINGEach student is responsible for fulfilling all of the requirements for the degree program being pursued and for following the procedures and regulations as stated in the Catalog in effect when entering college. The Catalog is valid for seven years. Students should keep a copy of the Catalog they enter under until they graduate. Assistance from an advisor is helpful in planning the program of studies and in selecting the specific courses to be taken for each semester. The Graduation from the University section of the Catalog outlines the minimum university level degreerequirements. Some colleges specify the exact manner in which the university level requirements must be met. In addition to these, the student must fulfill the college level requirements for the degree and the major requirements. If the admission and/or retention standards for a particular college or department differ from the university requirements, they will be listed in the college degree program description. If they do not, the university requirements apply. The guidelines below will be helpful in planning which program to follow.1. Read the Catalog to investigate what options are available; 2. consult with an academic advisor in the Academic Counseling Unit and/or the colleges which offer majors which are of interest to you; 3. talk with the departmental faculty in these areas of interest; 4. take advantage of the counseling offerings of the Center for Student Development (Testing, Career Counseling, Academic Counseling, Personal/Psychological Counseling, and the Educational Support Program);5. become familiar with the Academic Regulations section of the Catalog; determine the grades which are needed to insure retention and graduation as well as honors classifications in the university and in individual programs; 6. if you are undecided about a major area, begin your program of studies with those courses required for all degrees. After a major has been chosen: 1. Consult with your advisor to determine what procedures are necessary to declare a major; 2. read the entire section of the Catalog which relates to the degree and major selected: note all degree requirements listed for the college such as the number of hours required within the college and outside the college and the number of upper division hours required; list all the general education courses required for the college or obtain a degree sheet from the college advisor; note the major requirements (when choices are allowed, be sure to consult with your major advisor); 3. plan your coursework semester by semester; try to complete all of your lower division courses (1000- 2000) during your first two years; be sure to check for prerequisites before enrolling in any courses, especially upper division courses; take the courses in the proper sequence. To complete a 132 semester hour degree program in four years, you need to take 33 hours per year. The maximum allowed per semester (fall/spring) is 18 hours. Special permission must be received in order to carry more than 18 hours. Physical activity courses are not included in the 18-hour maximum. Description of the 12:03:07 PM]DESCRIPTION OF THE UNIVERSITY GENERAL DESCRIPTION THE MEMPHIS COMMUNITY ACADEMIC PROGRAM ACCREDITATION FACILITIES, RESEARCH AND SERVICES THE GRADUATE SCHOOL CECIL C. HUMPHREYS SCHOOL OF LAW THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS STATEMENT OF MISSION The University of Memphis is a member of the State University and Community College System of Tennessee and is governed by the Tennessee Board of Regents. As an urban university, The University of Memphis provides a stimulating academic environment for its students, including an innovative undergraduate education and excellence in selected research areas and graduate programs. The academic environment extends beyond the campus boundaries to encompass the entire community. Education is enhanced through exposure to diversity in composition of the student body, faculty, staff, and administrators; including women, minorities, individuals with disabilities, and various age groups and religions. The University has responded to the challenging responsibility of being located in a culturally diverse region by developing a unique blend of teaching, research, and service that contributes to the growth of the Mid-South region. Teaching brings the benefits of scholarship and research to students and through them to the people of the area. The University of Memphis asserts that excellence in teaching traditional and non-traditional students is its central responsibility. A comprehensive undergraduate education, grounded in the arts and sciences, develops intellectual, cultural, and ethical qualities in its students. The innovative General Education Program challenges students to develop the analytical and critical skills necessary for life-long learning. The University of Memphis offers master's and doctoral degrees in selected graduate programs as well as degrees in the major professional areas. Through learning begun at the University of Memphis, graduates compete in the global intellectual community in which they live. As a research university, The University of Memphis develops, integrates, disseminates, and applies knowledge. Faculty maintain on-going programs of basic and applied research or creative activities appropriate to their disciplines. The University's urban environment provides a rich opportunity for research and creative scholarship, and for the use of that scholarship in the intellectual and cultural development of the region. The University's commitment to fostering a research and creative environment harmonizes with the other aspects of its mission. The University of Memphis fulfills its outreach mission through its contributions to professional organizations and to the needs of the community. The University promotes intellectual, cultural, and community development of the region through, for example, its artistic programs, lecture series, technical assistance, continuing education, and intercollegiate athletic programs. The University of Memphis, through its research, teaching, and outreach roles, responds to individual needs, such as the support of health care and preventive health services. The University addresses broader issues as well, for instance, K-12 education, economic development, environmental initiatives, international programs, computing, and telecommunications. GENERAL DESCRIPTION Description of the University From the opening of its doors in 1912 as a normal school for training teachers to its present status as one of Tennessee's two comprehensive universities, The University of Memphis has been thrust forward by the Description of the 12:03:07 PM]growth of Memphis and the Mid-South. A town oriented to a rural economy and culture in 1900 grew into a large urban and commercial center mid-century, and the city's public institution of higher learning experienced comparable growth. The metropolitan and regional requirements for more highly trained university graduates have, of necessity, caused the university to expand all its offerings in arts and sciences, business, the fine arts, education, engineering and technology, law, and several special professional fields. Degrees range from the baccalaureate through the doctorate. Approximately 75 percent of the full-time faculty have earned the highest possible degree in their fields. The university strives to optimize its resources in its quest for excellence through teaching, research and service. With an enrollment of more than 20,000, The University of Memphis is committed to developing programs of the highest caliber, for only through such a commitment will it be a standard of quality in higher education for the citizens of our service area. As the comprehensive university of the State University and Community College System of Tennessee, The University of Memphis is striving to increase the ratio of doctoral programs it offers, which will also require an increased emphasis on research and scholarship activity. The university is committed to serving a diverse student body of all races, sexes and nationalities. Our students are expected, upon graduation, to be able to compete effectively with their counterparts from any other respected university in the nation. HistoryThe roots of The University of Memphis date back to September 12, 1912, with the establishment and beginning of classes at West Tennessee State Normal School, which provided for the training of primary and secondary education teachers. However, the seeds for the normal school's creation were sown three years earlier, in 1909, when the Tennessee General Assembly passed a General Education law calling for establishment and maintenance of three normal schools, one school located in each of the three grand divisions of the state. The eastern edge of Memphis became the site for West Tennessee State Normal School, which in 1929 became West Tennessee State Teachers College. In 1941, the college expanded its liberal arts curriculum, and the name was changed to Memphis State College--an institution serving three to four thousand students. The undergraduate program was reorganized into three schools and a graduate school was added in 1951. Memphis State achieved university status in 1957, and on July 1, 1994, the name was officially changed to The University of Memphis. Governing Body The governance and control of The University of Memphis is vested in the Tennessee Board of Regents. The Board of Regents consists of 18 members including 13 appointed by the Governor; four ex officio members- -the Governor, Commissioner of Education, Commissioner of Agriculture, and the Executive Director of the Tennessee Higher Education Commission--and one statutory member. One member is appointed from each of the state's nine congressional districts, and three are approved at-large from different geographical areas of the state. A student regent is appointed from one of the system institutions for a one-year term. OrganizationThe schools and colleges that make up the university are the Graduate School, the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, the University College, the Loewenberg School of Nursing, the School of Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology, and five colleges offering graduate and undergraduate programs: the College of Arts and Sciences, the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, the College of Communication and Fine Arts, the College of Education, and the Herff College of Engineering. The institution also offers a University Honors Program for highly motivated students seeking exceptional and challenging programs of study in a variety of disciplines. The colleges, departments, and the undergraduate degree programs they offer are described in more detail in the Colleges and Degree Programs section of this catalog. Description of the 12:03:07 PM]THE MEMPHIS COMMUNITY Memphis, with a metropolitan area population of just over one million, is one of the South's largest and most attractive cities. As a primary medical, educational, communication, distribution and transportation center, Memphis offers a rich and full range of research opportunities and cultural experiences. The city, known worldwide for its musical heritage, has many fine restaurants, museums, and theaters, as well as one of the nation's largest urban park systems. Annual events include the St. Jude Liberty Bowl Football Classic, the Memphis in May International Festival, the Federal Express St. Jude Golf Classic, the Great River Carnival and the Mid-South Fair. The medical complex in Memphis is the South's largest and one of the nation's foremost centers of medical research. A public transportation system provides easy travel between the university and other parts of the city. Built on bluffs overlooking the Mississippi River, Memphis is devoted to preserving its history while vigorously building its future. Clusters of stately old homes dot the city; some are still inhabited, others preserve the past as museums, some have been restored and recast into commercial establishments; all are home to images from a long-ago time. The university's modern and beautifully landscaped campus is centrally located in an attractive residential area of Memphis, with shopping, recreation and entertainment centers nearby. In addition to the main campus facilities, the university has research and athletic training facilities and married student housing on the South Campus. ACADEMIC PROGRAM ACCREDITATION The University of Memphis is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools to award bachelor's, first professional, master's, educational specialist's and doctoral degrees. The various colleges, schools and departments and/or the individual programs are accredited by the following appropriate accrediting agencies: Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communication American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business American Bar Association American Chemical Society American Dietetic Association American Home Economics Association American Psychological Association American Speech-Language-Hearing Association Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs Council on Rehabilitation Education Council on Social Work Education National Association of Schools of Art and Design National Association of Schools of Music National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration National Association of Schools of Theatre National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education National League for Nursing Planning Accreditation Board FACILITIES, RESEARCH, AND SERVICES Academic Common Market Participation in the Academic Common Market allows qualified students from southern states to pay in-state tuition while pursuing certain degree programs at The University of Memphis. This arrangement is available Description of the 12:03:07 PM]only for students whose home states do not offer the designated program. The state in which the student resides determines which of the programs offered by The University of Memphis it will make available to its students.The participating states are Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia (Florida and Texas grant access for graduate level programs only). Students may request through their home state coordinators that additional programs be made accessible. A list of the state coordinators with their addresses and telephone numbers may be obtained from the Office of Curriculum Planning. In addition to certification requirements which the student's state of residence may specify, the following pertain: (1) Students must be fully admitted to a degree program that has been approved as an Academic Common Market program (non-degree students are ineligible); (2) students must obtain a letter certifying residency and approval for the particular University of Memphis program from their state's Academic Common Market coordinator. Library Facilities The University of Memphis Libraries includes the Ned R. McWherter Library and five branch libraries-- Audiology and Speech Pathology, Chemistry, Earth Sciences, Mathematics, and Music-- contiguous to the appropriate university departments. The McWherter Library offers many services through its Reference Department, including information retrieval from online databases, CD-ROM searching, and instruction in use of the library. The Government Publications Department is the Regional Federal Documents Depository for the State of Tennessee, and continues to serve as a depository for all State of Tennessee documents. The Special Collections Department's largest collection --Mississippi Valley Collection-- reflects the history and culture of the Mississippi River valley. The University of Memphis Libraries' online catalog of its collections is available through terminals in the McWherter Library and the branch libraries. At these terminals users have access, not only to the library's own database of holdings, but to the campus VAX network, the Internet, and to many other electronic resources. Dial-access to the catalog is also available from compatible personal computers. The University of Memphis Libraries maintains agreements with other local institutions for shared use of library collections by students, faculty, and staff. These institutions include Rhodes College, LeMoyne-Owen College, Mid-America Baptist Theological Seminary, Memphis Theological Seminary, Shelby State Community College, State Technical Institute at Memphis, the University of Mississippi, and Christian Brothers University.Computer Facilities Computing support for the instructional program of The University of Memphis and for scholarly research is provided by Computer Services. In addition to the two VAX computers and the UNISYS computer serving administrative computing, the central academic computing system is composed of a Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) VAX 6610 and a DEC VAX 6620. These two computers have 128 million characters of main memory and more than 20 billion characters of user disk storage along with the necessary tape and print peripherals. This system supports interactive, batch, and network processing. The Training Center in Smith Chemistry Building contains 29 networked IBM compatible and Apple Macintosh microcomputers and is used for hands-on training for faculty, staff, and students. Computing laboratories with networked IBM compatible and Apple Mac microcomputers and remote laser printers are located in the Herff College of Engineering, the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, and the Winfield Dunn Building. The Winfield Dunn Building lab also contains interactive, high-resolution graphics terminals. Computer laboratories with academic mainframe terminals and remote high-speed line printers are located in the Richardson Towers Building and the Ball Education Building. Consultants are available in Computer Services to assist academic mainframe computer users in use of the computing facilities including installed statistical and non-statistical software and in the use of the various networks including Bitnet; the state-wide Description of the 12:03:07 PM]educational network, TECnet; and the Internet via the mid-level network, SURAnet. Additionally, consultants are available to assist with instruction in microcomputers and with installation and maintenance services for microcomputers. Access to Bitnet, an international electronic network of scholars, and the Internet, an international network of networks that includes NSFnet (National Science Foundation Network), is available to researchers through the academic mainframe system. More than 800 microcomputers and terminals are directly connected to the campus-wide network. As many as 70 local area networks (LANs), each with many microcomputers and printers, are also connected to the network. The campus-wide computer network is an optical fiber based network utilizing many protocols including TCP/IP, DECnet, and LAT. Special purpose minicomputers are available in several individual departments including Geological Sciences and Mathematical Sciences. A growing number of workstations are available through academic departments on campus, including Chemistry, Mathematical Sciences, and Engineering as well as in the Computer Center. In addition, more than 2,000 microcomputers are available throughout the university to directly support instruction and research. Fogelman Executive Center The Fogelman Executive Center is a state-of-the-art conference and training facility designed to meet the needs of executives, managers, and professionals in all organizational areas. The center has fifty-one hotel rooms, sixteen conference and seminar rooms, and two dining rooms. The staff of the Fogelman Executive Center provides coordination and planning services for all types of conferences and seminars. These services are available to professional level university groups and the Memphis business community. Bureau of Business and Economic Research The Bureau of Business and Economic Research is the organized research and public service unit of the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. The programs of the bureau include public service to government agencies (state and local) and the business community, continuing education, and applied general research. Bureau of Educational Service The Bureau of Educational Service promotes and supports research, develop- ment, evaluation, and field services in the College of Education. Bureau personnel are active in the operation of projects for local, state, regional, and national education agencies. Services are provided to faculty members through staff development, funding source identification, proposal preparation assistance, and contract administration support.Center for Earthquake Research and Information The Center for Earthquake Research and Information was established in 1977 by the Tennessee State Legislature to provide the citizens of Tennessee, governmental agencies, and the news media such services as the following: (1) accurate, immediate reports and background information on the occurrence of regional earthquakes; (2) scientific research related to the causes and consequences of local earthquakes and to the possibility of earthquake prediction; (3) studies related to the desirability of earthquake resistant construction; (4) advice to the populace, business, government, and insurance groups on the methods, means, and feasibility of reducing earthquake damage. It operates as a research organization of The University of Memphis. It supports some undergraduate student research in seismology and geophysics and civil engineering and cooperates with the Department of Geological Sciences in offering an undergraduate degree concentration in geophysics. Center for Electron Microscopy The Center for Electron Microscopy provides facilities and expertise in the field of electron microscopy. Users Description of the 12:03:07 PM]of the center include researchers and graduate students in the biological and physical sciences. Edward J. Meeman Biological Station The Edward J. Meeman Biological Station was established in 1967 to encourage and foster scientific pursuits in natural history, ecology, and environmental biology. Located about 23 miles northeast of the main campus and adjacent to Meeman-Shelby Forest State Park in northwestern Shelby County, the 623-acre station (with laboratory, classroom, and small conference facilities) provides students and faculty from The University of Memphis, as well as visiting investigators, with a unique site for research, teaching, and service activities. The station is an integral part of the Department of Biology. Ecological Research Center The Ecological Research Center (ERC) of the Department of Biology is organized to conduct and coordinate research, teaching, and service activities in ecology and related areas. Major areas of research include: fish culture, water quality, wildlife biology, endangered and threatened species, systematics, and physiological responses of organisms to the environment. The teaching program of the ERC provides a training program for students interested in pursuing careers in various professional fields and affords an opportunity for students to participate in activities involving contemporary environmental problems. Public service activities are primarily directed toward promoting environmental awareness and providing information and consultation services to those concerned with environmental problems. The Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities The Center for the Humanities was founded in 1987 and renamed in 1991 in memory of Dr. Orr, Professor of History. Its purpose is to support teacher and course development, independent and collaborative research, and public programs that will foster an understanding of the importance of the humanities and establish a sense of intellectual community among humanities faculty at the university. The center sponsors visiting scholars, course development grants, lectures, and a Humanities Fellows Program that supports faculty scholarship. Center for Manpower Studies The Center for Manpower Studies, located in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, conducts research on employment and training-related topics and provides technical assistance to federal, state, and local agencies. It also offers a variety of training programs for human resource development agencies throughout the southeast. Center for Research on Women Founded in 1982, the Center for Research on Women, located in the College of Arts and Sciences, has rapidly gained national recognition for its pioneering work on race, class, and gender. Its mission is to promote research in the field of women's studies with a focus on southern women and women of color in the United States. Since its inception, the center has received grants for research and research related activity from both foundation and government sources. Center for the Study of Higher Education The Center for the Study of Higher Education, located in the College of Education, conducts research and sponsors workshops and conferences in higher education. Chucalissa Indian Village and Museum (C. H. Nash Museum) This partly reconstructed prehistoric Indian village on its original site and the museum are operated by the Department of Anthropology as an educational and research facility. The indoor and outdoor exhibits are designed to reconstruct prehistoric Indian life in the Mid-South. Students are trained in the techniques of excavation, restoration and museum operations. The courses taught are listed in the Department of Anthropology offerings. Chucalissa is located 17 miles from the main campus. Description of the 12:03:07 PM]The Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology The institute, founded in 1984 and designated a Tennessee Center of Excellence in 1985, is a component of the Department of Art at The University of Memphis. The institute is dedicated to the study of the art and culture of ancient Egypt through teaching, research, exhibition, and excavation. It is staffed by egyptologists and art historians associated with the department's art history program. Its research library consists of more than 6000 egyptological books and periodicals including precious and out-of-print volumes. Supporting the institute's programs is the University Gallery at The University of Memphis, which houses the institute's growing collection of Egyptian antiquities, the largest in the Mid-South. The institute also sponsors an epigraphic project at The Great Hypostyle Hall of the Karnak Temple. Institute for Intelligent Systems The institute is designed to bring together research and training in the broad areas of cognitive science, complex dynamical systems, artificial intelligence, and massively parallel computing (neural computing). Current research includes basic research supported by grants from funding agencies and applied research supported by industrial/governmental contracts. Ideas and techniques for research are gathered from the disciplines of cognitive psychology, computer science, philosophy of mind, neuroscience, linguistics, and mathematics. Training should include graduate courses, thesis and dissertation research, and industrial training in the form of workshops, seminars, and employee research participation. Regional Economic Development Center The center represents the university in its outreach function in the field of economic development planning. In providing technical and management assistance to the public and private sectors, the center also serves as a laboratory for interdisciplinary research and service by faculty and graduate students in solving problems of urban and regional development. The center's professional planning staff have academic appointments and teach courses in urban and regional planning. Speech and Hearing Center Located at 807 Jefferson Avenue in the medical center of Memphis, this facility became affiliated with the university in 1967. An additional site is located on the South Campus in building #44. Both locations serve children and adults with communication disorders. Students at the university are seen at no charge, while faculty and staff are seen for 50% of normal charges. The university administers and operates the center in cooperation with the Board of Directors of the Memphis Speech and Hearing Center, Inc. Other Research Units In addition to the units described above, The University of Memphis also recognizes a wide array of other research- oriented units: Anthropological Research Center Barbara K. Lipman Early Childhood School and Research Institute Center for River Studies Center for Health Services Research Center for Voluntary Action Research Federal Express Center for Cycle Time Research Groundwater Institute Highwater Recording Company Institute for Egyptian Art and Archaeology Neuropsychology Research Laboratory Oral History Research Office Prevention Center (joint with UT Memphis) Religious News Association Archives Description of the 12:03:07 PM]Robert Wang Center for International Business Southern Music Archive Transportation Studies Institute National Science Foundation Industry/University Cooperative Research Center for Bio-Surfaces Site Recognized Centers and Chairs of Excellence The University of Memphis has been designated by the Tennessee Higher Education Commission as a location for centers and chairs of excellence. The units listed below receive special funding by the State in recognition of their status. Centers of Excellence Center for Applied Psychological Research Center for Earthquake Research and Information Center for Research Initiatives and Strategies for the Communicatively Impaired Center for Research in Educational Policy Center of Excellence in Egyptian Art and Archaeology Chairs of Excellence Accounting (2) Art History Biomedical Engineering (2) Combinatoric Mathematics EnglishFinanceFree Enterprise Management International Business International Economics Judaic Studies LawManagement Information Systems Molecular Biology NursingPhilosophyReal Estate SalesCenter for Instructional Service and Research The Center for Instructional Service and Research (CISR) provides support and enrichment to the instructional programs at The University of Memphis and to the teaching, creative endeavors, research, and publication activities of its faculty and staff. Located in the John Willard Brister Library building, CISR provides services through the Learning Media Center, Graphic Design and Production, and Evaluation Service.Faculty, staff, and graduate teaching assistants who wish to check out programs and equipment or to order graphics service must present a valid University ID card at the LMC desk when equipment and/or material are checked out or to the Graphic Artist when work is requested. Eligible users may check out equipment and media for use in courses they teach, but not for courses in which they are enrolled. The LEARNING MEDIA CENTER (LMC) maintains the university's collection of instructional audiovisual programs in a variety of formats, including 16mm films, audio tapes, video cassettes, sound-slide and sound-filmstrip sets, and some computer software. Equipment is available for faculty use in the classroom. Services provided by the LMC include instruction on equipment operation, limited audio and video tape duplication within the provisions of the copyright law, assistance in locating information about audiovisual Description of the 12:03:07 PM]programs and identifying appropriate media for a given course, and arranging previews for purchase consideration. Students, faculty, and staff may view most programs in the LMC; conditions for use of all programs are governed by the provisions of copyright law (Title 17 U.S. Code). On the balcony above the Learning Media Center, a laboratory with personal computers and printers is available during all hours the LMC is open for individual faculty, staff, and student use. Software may be obtained at the LMC desk. Some assistance is available, but no instruction. GRAPHIC DESIGN AND PRODUCTION provides a variety of services for faculty and staff. Presentation posters, overhead transparencies, photostatic copies for publication, and specifications for materials to be typeset at Printing Services can be provided. Charts and graphs for university publication and/or representation, along with design and illustration for similar purposes, are also offered. Material and information necessary for the job must be delivered in person a minimum of two weeks before the completed work is required. The cost for materials and labor is charged to the requesting department or grant account. EVALUATION SERVICE conducts the university program for student evaluation of instruction, collecting, analyzing, and reporting student perceptions of classroom instruction. Each fall and spring semester, faculty are offered the opportunity to participate and to indicate classes to be surveyed. After the semester ends, the completed forms and a computer summary of student reactions are returned to the faculty. These documents, which form an important part of the dossier prepared for promotion and tenure, provide information useful to individual faculty in ongoing course development and improvement of instruction. Individual faculty who wish to develop or improve their teaching, may request that CISR staff vido tape a class session. Visiting speakers and faculty programs are recorded with permission and the tapes added to the LMC collection and made available for use by the University community. Jackson Center Located on the campus of Jackson State Community College, the Jackson Center offers a wide variety of undergraduate and graduate courses and degree programs to students living in the Jackson area. In addition, the Jackson Center houses the Office of Extended Programs, which coordinates course and program delivery at various locations in West Tennessee. The Jackson Center is administered through the Office of the Vice Provost for Extended Programs. Higher Education Alliance This alliance provides cooperative service through The University of Memphis, Jackson State Community College, and the State Area Vocational-Technical School at Crump. Reporting through the Office of the Vice Provost for Extended Programs and located at the State Area Vocational-Technical School at Crump, it offers an array of undergraduate and graduate courses to students in its service area. Psychological Services Center The Psychological Services Center, located on the first floor of the Psychology Building, offers both psychological evaluations and therapeutic services to children and adults. For appointments or information, contact the center. AlumniThe University of Memphis Alumni Association has offices located in the Alumni Center on campus. The staff serves The University of Memphis Alumni Association and provides a communication linkage to the university for graduates and former students. The Alumni Association and staff also offer special services for current students and serve as the sponsors for the university's Student Ambassador Board. Development Description of the 12:03:07 PM]The Office of Development serves as a procurer and coordinator for private charitable financial support of The University of Memphis academic programs. With approximately 50 percent of the university's annual operating budget provided by the state of Tennessee, other income must be generated by student tuition, other fees, and through annual and endowed gifts from individuals, corporations and foundations. Such income is used to initiate new academic programs and enrich existing ones. Oak Ridge Associated Universities Since 1971, students and faculty of The University of Memphis have benefited from the university's membership in Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU), a consortium of colleges and universities and a management and operating contractor for the United States Department of Energy (DOE) located in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. ORAU works with its member institutions to help their students and faculty gain access to federal research facilities throughout the country; to keep its members informed about opportunities for fellowship, scholarship, and research appointments; and to organize research alliances among its members. Through the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education, the DOE facility that ORAU manages, undergraduates, graduates, postgraduates, as well as faculty enjoy access to a multitude of opportunities for study and research. Students can participate in programs covering a wide variety of disciplines including business, earth sciences, epidemiology, engineering, physics, pharmacology, ocean sciences, biomedical sciences, nuclear chemistry, and mathematics. Appointment and program length range from one month to four years. Many of these programs are especially designed to increase the numbers of under represented minority students pursuing degrees in science- and engineering-related disciplines. A comprehensive listing of the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education programs and other opportunities, their disciplines, and details on locations and benefits can be obtained in the Office of the Vice Provost for Research, Administration Building, Room 317. Public Service In recognition of the university's responsibility to serve the needs of a changing social and economic order, the Office of Public Service serves as a prime contact for individuals and organizations outside the university. Through this office, access may be gained to university facilities and resources. Tennessee Small Business Development Center The Tennessee Small Business Development Center is organized to provide business development services to new and existing small business firms throughout the state of Tennessee. These services are delivered through service centers located at various state universities, community colleges, and technical institutes. These services add to the economic development efforts of the local communities by adding and retaining employment. Special attention is given to women, minority, and veteran-owned businesses. Continuing Education Short Course Program The Continuing Education Short Course Program serves as an important link to the Memphis community, providing comprehensive, non-credit programs ranging from career development to personal enrichment. The program is designed to narrow the education gap left by the degree-awarding academic programs at The University of Memphis, thus complementing the university's mission of service to the community. The program is strongly service-oriented, providing general interest instruction to learners of all ages, regardless of their educational background. The Short Course Continuing Education product is high quality, affordable, and requires no formal admission to the university. Clean Tennessee The Clean Tennessee program, established in 1983, serves as the state Keep America Beautiful agency and state resource center for litter prevention and proper solid waste management education. Functioning as a department under the Vice Provost for Extended Programs, Clean Tennessee is funded by Tennessee Description of the 12:03:07 PM]Department of Transportation. THE GRADUATE SCHOOL The Graduate School of The University of Memphis is the center of advanced study and research within the university. The basic objectives of the Graduate School are as follows: 1. to preserve and disseminate knowledge; 2. to extend knowledge through research; and 3. to prepare men and women to assume responsible and useful roles in a changing society. The Doctor of Philosophy degree is awarded in audiology and speech pathology, biology, business administration, chemistry, counseling psychology, engineering, geophysics, history, mathematics, music, philosophy, and psychology. The degrees of Doctor of Education and Doctor of Musical Arts are awarded by the College of Education and the College of Communication and Fine Arts, respectively. The College of Education also offers the degree of Education Specialist with a major in education. The Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law offers the Juris Doctor degree. Master's degrees are offered in forty-three major areas through five colleges and one independent school. The degrees include Master of Science, Master of Arts, Master of Fine Arts, Master of Arts in Teaching, Master of Education, Master of Business Administration, Master of Music, Master of City and Regional Planning, Master of Health Administration, and Master of Public Administration. CECIL C. HUMPHREYS SCHOOL OF LAW PROGRAM: The Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law offers a program of instruction leading to the degree of Juris Doctor. A student may enroll only in the fall semester and on a full-time or part-time basis. A student regularly employed more than 20 hours per week may not pursue the full-time program. The successful completion of 90 semester hours of work, including all required courses, with the prescribed grade average is necessary for graduation. Unless an exception is granted, the last two regular semesters' work must be taken in this school. ADMISSION: Admission to the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law is on a selective basis. To be eligible for admission, a student must have received a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university and must have made a satisfactory score on the Law School Admission Test administered by the Law School Admissions Services, Box 2000, Newtown, PA 18940. Questions concerning additional admissions requirements should be directed to the Coordinator of Law Admissions and Recruitment. The regulations and policies of the School of Law are set out in greater detail in a separate issue of the Law School Catalog. Additional information may be obtained from the Coordinator of Law Admissions and Recruitment, Law Building, 3715 Central Avenue, Memphis, TN 38152. Services to 12:03:09 PM]SERVICES TO STUDENTS ADMISSIONSSTUDENT AID REGISTRATION AND STUDENT RECORDS ADULT STUDENT DEVELOPMENT SERVICES STUDENT DEVELOPMENT STUDENT LIFE ENROLLMENT SERVICES Enrollment Services aims to provide "excellence in service with a personal touch" for all students enrolled at The University of Memphis. We seek to provide services that are pleasant, friendly, effective, efficient, and without lines. Included in Enrollment Services are: Office of Admissions (including New Student Relations, Orientation, and Applicant Services); Office of Student Financial Aid (including the University Scholarship Program); Office of the Registrar (including an Evening Branch Office); and the Adult Student Development Office (including MINI College, Child Care Center, and Adult Student Services). ADMISSIONS ADMISSION TO THE UNIVERSITY The University of Memphis offers equal educational opportunity to all persons without regard to race, religion, sex, creed, color, national origin, or disability. Inquiries about admission to any college of the university should be addressed to the Office of Admissions. This office receives and processes all applications, evaluates credentials, and issues notices of acceptance to qualified students. Undergraduate students may enter at the beginning of either of the fall or spring semesters or at the beginning of any term of the summer session. The University of Memphis encourages all those who feel they can benefit from the educational opportunities offered by the institution to file an application for admission. Consideration is given to age, educational background, entrance examination scores, high school grades, any college attendance, and any other special talents and/or special circumstances which may affect the applicant's academic performance. Certain instructional programs of the university are subject to special admission requirements and are subject to change according to the availability of institutional resources. Students wishing to enter one of these programs of study should check with the appropriate department or division offering the program in order to become familiar with these special requirements. Undergraduate programs with special admission requirements include, but are not limited to, professional degrees in art, music, or theatre (Bachelor of Fine Arts or Bachelor of Music), teacher education, educational services, nursing, and the University College. Students are encouraged to apply as early as possible. Early admission contributes to better orientation, course planning, class scheduling and financial aid consideration. High school students planning to apply as freshmen should submit applications as soon as possible after completion of the junior year. Applications for admission are available from many secondary school/guidance counseling offices and from the Office of Admissions, The University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152. All credentials become the property of the university and cannot be forwarded or returned. Credentials will be maintained in active files for a 12--month period. After this period, credentials will be relegated to inactive status and must be submitted again before an admission decision can be made. Regulations in this section are subject to change without notice. ADMISSION AS DEGREE-SEEKING UNDERGRADUATES Services to 12:03:09 PM]The deadlines for submitting applications for admission are: August 1 for the fall semester, December 1 for the spring semester, and May 1 for the summer session. Applications received after these deadlines may be delayed in processing or processed at the non-degree level. Freshman Applicants An applicant who has no previous college enrollment may be considered for admission as a regular undergraduate freshman by submitting the following to the Admissions Office: 1. A final transcript of all high school credits: Early decisions can be made by submitting partial transcripts (6th or 7th semester). Transcripts carried by the student are not acceptable for the admissions file. If any courses have been taken for college credit, the institution(s) granting credit must be contacted and asked to send an official transcript to The University of Memphis, Office of Admissions. Graduates of an unapproved or non-accredited high school must take the General Educational Development (GED) test and earn an average standard score of at least 45. This GED requirement is waived for students who earn the minimum ACT required for guaranteed admission. However, the GED may be advisable for students who graduated in 1989 or thereafter from an unapproved or non-approved high school and are deficient in one or more of the required high school courses. Students who have achieved a high school diploma through the General Education Development (GED) Test must also have the GED scores sent to the Office of Admissions. Students who do not present one unit of American History are required to register for the course during their first or second year at the university. 2. The score report of the American College Testing program (ACT) or the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT): The score report is a necessary part of the application and the test date should be no more than three years old at the time of enrollment. 3. A non-refundable application fee of $5.00. 4. Any additional items and information requested in the application materials by the Office of Admissions. Students will be considered for admission with a minimum high school grade point average of 2.00 on a 4.00 scale or a 19 composite score on the enhanced ACT. Students will be guaranteed admission with a 3.0 cumulative grade point average on a 4.0 scale from an accredited or approved high school or a minimum ACT composite score of 20 on the enhanced ACT or the equivalent on the former ACT and satisfactory completion of the required high school curriculum. The average high school grade point average for the entering class of 1994 is 2.97, and the average ACT composite is 22.2. Applicants with special talents or circumstances who do not meet requirements for guaranteed admission may be considered. For further information contact the Office of Admissions. Applicants with diagnosed learning disabilities should contact the Director of the Office for Students with Disabilities for further information. High School Curriculum Required For Admission No high school curriculum can assure that a given student will acquire desired learning outcomes; however, the absence of certain components greatly increases the likelihood that the student will not acquire those outcomes and reduces the likelihood that the student will enjoy maximum benefits of a college experience. The justification for colleges' recommending or requiring specific high school units for admission is to reduce the likelihood that a student will be unprepared for effective work in college and to increase maximum benefits a student may enjoy. Effective the Fall Semester 1989, among the units required for graduation, the following specific high school units must be included in the minimum admissions requirements at all Tennessee State Board of Regents universities and colleges. Students who do not take one or more of these required courses, where they are available, may not be eligible for admission to the university. ENGLISH (4 units required): Units in this category must address reading and literature, writing, speaking and listening, and principles concerning the English language. Extensive experience in reading and writing should characterize all courses. VISUAL AND/OR PERFORMING ARTS (l unit required): Units in this category should include a survey of the arts (visual arts, Services to 12:03:09 PM]theater, music, and dance) or active participation in one or more of the arts. MATHEMATICS (3 units required): Units in this category must include Algebra I, Algebra II, and geometry or an advanced course with geometry as a major component. Students are recommended to take a fourth unit in computing, advanced mathematics, or statistics. All college freshmen will benefit by having studied mathematics as seniors. NATURAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCES (2 units required): Units in this category must include mathematical skills, fundamental concepts, and some laboratory and field work. At least one unit must address detailed knowledge in the more traditional fields of biology, chemistry, or physics and must include a laboratory. SOCIAL STUDIES (2 units required): For students graduating prior to spring 1993, the units in this category may include: history, government, geography, economics, sociology, psychology, or anthropology. For students graduating in the spring 1993 or thereafter, these units must come from the following: modern history, ancient history, world history, world geography, or European history. One unit in American History is also required. FOREIGN LANGUAGE (2 units required): Two units in a single foreign language are required in this category. These stipulated high school units are not intended to specify what the total high school curriculum should be. Secondary schools seek to meet the needs of various student clienteles, one of which is the college- bound student. The stipulations are, on the other hand, an attempt to make a strategic application of academic competencies. They reflect the bridge from specific desired learning outcomes to a list of required college admission criteria. That list is composed of high school units presumed most likely to result in the required learning outcomes. For the sake of clarity, one unit constitutes one year of high school study of a given subject. Applicants with subject deficiencies may, with proper institutional approvals, be admitted to the university; however, the deficiencies must be removed during the first 64 semester hours (30 semester hours for transfer students) of college enrollment. College level courses taken to remove unit deficiencies must be completed with a grade of C or better and will be used for elective credit only. Different requirements may be specified for certain groups of applicants: adult students (i.e., students separated from high school graduation by three or more years), GED students who are not high school graduates, and international students. Transfer and re-entry students may be required to remove any deficiencies before regular admission.OUT-OF-STATE APPLICANTS Acceptance to the university for out-of-state applicants who meet guaranteed admission standards may be granted on the same basis as for in-state applicants. Acceptance for all other out-of-state applicants is competitive.Out of state applicants who qualify for and participate in the University Honors Program may qualify for a waiver of the out-of-state tuition differential. EARLY ADMISSION APPLICANTS Academically outstanding high school juniors who have completed three academic years of high school, accumulating at least 14 units of course work may be considered for early admission if they have the following:1. A minimum high school cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 on a 4.00 scale. 2. A minimum ACT composite score of 26 on the enhanced ACT or the equivalent on the former ACT. 3. Written recommendations from high school principal and guidance counselor. 4. An interview with U of M faculty/staff committee selecting early admission students. In addition, they must agree to enroll in freshman English, and, unless successfully completed in high school, courses in American history and economics. Services to 12:03:09 PM]NOTE: Early admission applicants should also check with their high school for specific graduation requirements.Transfer Applicants The University of Memphis welcomes applications from students who have begun college elsewhere. They may transfer to The University of Memphis with any number of units. If they have fifteen (15) or more semester units transferable from a fully accredited college or university, students are evaluated primarily on college-level work. If they have fewer than fifteen (15) transferable units, students are evaluated on a combination of college-level and high school course work, and college entrance examination results. To qualify for degree-seeking transfer admission, the applicant must request that a transcript from each institution attended be sent directly to the Office of Admissions. Transfer applicants who graduated from high school in 1989 or later may also be subject to the high school curriculum requirements found above in this section of the catalog. To make this determination, a high school transcript is necessary. Therefore, all transfer applicants whose high school graduation date was in 1989 or later should have a transcript mailed directly from their high school to the Admissions Office. Concealment of previous college or university attendance may be cause for rejection or cancellation of admission. Admission may be granted to applicants who have honorable dismissal from the last institution attended and whose cumulative quality point average (QPA) meets the required minimum established by the Tennessee State Board of Regents, as stated below: Semester Hours Attempted Minimum QPA 14.99 or less No minimum* 15.00-29.99 1.40 30.00-50.99 1.70 51.00-67.99 1.90 68.00 and above 2.00 * Transfer applicants with fewer than 15.00 earned semester hours must meet the admission requirements for freshman applicants. Transfer applicants who have been academically dismissed from the last institution they attended or do not meet the QPA requirements listed above, will not be considered for admission until at least one regular semester (not to include summer sessions) has elapsed. After this period, these applicants must provide the following: A. a new application (no additional fee required), and B. an acceptable ACT or SAT score. NOTE: Applicants who meet one of the criteria outlined in the Adult Students section do not have to submit an acceptable ACT or SAT score. If acceptance to the university is granted, the applicant will be admitted on academic probation. Students on probation at their previous school will continue in that academic status. Transfer applicants who are denied admission should contact the Applicant Services section of the Office of Admissions to discuss the possibilities of attending the university in the future. Adult Students The University of Memphis encourages the enrollment of adult students. In order to facilitate this, the university offers additional support services and alternative admission policies to promote the enrollment of the mature student. These services include but are not limited to evening and week-end classes through the MINI College. The Adult Student Development Office offers child care during class attendance, tutoring programs, the Adult Student Association and much more. Services to 12:03:09 PM]In addition, adult students generally are not required to provide an entrance examination for admission. They may, however, be expected to complete a placement instrument depending on individual circumstances.Adult students are those applicants who meet one of the following criteria: 1. at least 24 years of age 2. at least 21 years of age and have been away from school for some time For further information, please contact the Adult Student Development Office in Room 419 in the University Center.International Students The University of Memphis believes that the presence of a balanced representation of international students on campus will enrich the educational environment of all students. Therefore, the university is authorized under federal law to enroll nonimmigrant, alien students on "F-1" and "J-1" student visas. Applicants must file complete credentials before May 1 for fall admission; September 15 for spring admission; or February 1 for summer admission. Complete credentials include all the documents listed below under "Requirements." The international application should be completed carefully and returned to the Office of Admissions, The University of Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee, 38152, U.S.A. Applications and fees received after the stated deadlines will be returned. A non-refundable international application and processing fee of $30.00 (thirty dollars) is required of every international applicant, unless previously paid. A check or money order, made payable to The University of Memphis, must be sent with the application form. Applications received without the fee will be returned. International applicants should write to the Office of Admissions for information on application procedures, qualifications, and admission to the university. Since there is considerable variation among educational systems throughout the world, international applicants will be selected on a competitive basis, after meeting the minimum standards of admission using examination scores, grade point average, relevance of academic background to intended major field of study and recommendations from the World Education Series. The university often receives more applications than can be approved; therefore, admission cannot be granted to all applicants who meet only the minimum requirements. Since the enrollment of international students is based on a global sampling and representation, priority will be given to applicants with exceptional credentials who will be attending a university in the United States for the first time. All transcripts, test scores, and other credentials must be accompanied by an official English translation of these documents and must be on file in the Office of Admissions by the stated deadlines before the beginning of registration for the intended term of entry. REQUIREMENTS1. Educational Background: Applicants must list on the form provided by the university every school attended, beginning with primary school, to the present, including each primary, secondary, and post secondary institution. 2. Required Transcripts: Applicants must arrange for the Office of Admissions to receive official copies of academic records from the applicant's attendance at secondary school, college, university, and professional institutions of learning. These transcripts must be sent directly from the high school or college to The University of Memphis. An exception is made for those who hold the bachelor's degree or its equivalent in that they need not send their secondary school records. Records should list the subjects studied and the grade, mark, or other evidence that each individual subject was completed to the satisfaction of the authorities in charge. If it is impossible for the school to send us an official copy, copies certified by an official at the American Embassy or a known world organization may be acceptable. All records must be in English. Since certificates and records filed for examination are not ordinarily returned, applicants should send certified photostatic copies if the documents in question cannot be easily replaced. 3. Required Test of All Applicants: All applicants whose native language is not English must supply results of the Test of English Services to 12:03:09 PM]as a Foreign Language TOEFL) or its equivalent. TOEFL information may be obtained by writing: TOEFL, Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New Jersey, 08540, U.S.A. All test scores must be sent directly from the testing agency to The University of Memphis. 4. Freshman Test Required: Applicants to the first year undergraduate level must submit scores on the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) or the American College Testing Program (ACT). These tests are available only in English. For information on the SAT, applicants may write to College Entrance Examination Board, Box 592, Princeton, New Jersey, 08540, U.S.A. For information on the ACT, applicants may write to American College Testing Program, P.O. Box 414, Iowa City, Iowa, 52243, U.S.A. All test scores must be sent directly from the testing agency to The University of Memphis. 5. Financial Statement: U.S. visa regulations require that certification of admission be based on both academic acceptance and satisfactory evidence of adequate funds to meet the expenses involved in the student's program of study. Applicants on an "F-1" student visa must supply, on the form provided by the university, sufficient evidence of financial support for themselves and all members of their families who will accompany them to Memphis. This requires that applicants certify that their intent is to attend the university full time and that no employment will be required. 6. Applicants must send two recent passport size photos of themselves to the Office of Admissions, The University of Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee, 38152, U.S.A. 7. Health Certificate Required: Each international student, within 30 days from the first day of classes, must submit a certificate from a licensed U.S. physician or other qualified U.S. medical authority verifying freedom from tuberculosis. Failure to do so shall result in denial of enrollment. In the event that the student either has tuberculosis or has potential tuberculosis requiring medical treatment, continued enrollment will be conditioned upon the determination by a licensed U.S. physician that such enrollment does not present a risk to others and upon the student's compliance with any prescribed medical treatment program. In order to enroll, all international students born after January, 1957, must prove that they have been inoculated with the live measles vaccine (MMR) since January, 1980. Exceptions are made for students who are pregnant or allergic to the vaccine. 8. All international students must purchase a health insurance policy through the university or provide evidence of government sponsored health insurance before they are allowed to enroll. 9. English Placement Examination: All international applicants who are accepted must take an English placement examination, administered by the English Department, before enrollment. Placement in an English class will be determined by the results of this examination. International students should arrange to be on campus approximately one week before the beginning of Regular Registration for the proposed term of entry. 10. International students will not normally be allowed to register as transient students (those regularly enrolled and in good standing at another institution who desire to attend The University of Memphis for only a limited period of time). During summer sessions, exceptions may be granted only in cases where a student has an outstanding academic record and unusual circumstances are present. 11. International students who wish to apply for readmission to the university must meet the deadlines stated above. 12. International students must become familiar with the regulations of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and assume responsibility for complying with these regulations. 13. International students should be prepared to attend a four- to five-day mandatory orientation prior to the first day of class. Combination Senior An undergraduate senior student with a total cumulative GPA of at least 3.25 and who is enrolled in the last term of course work at The University of Memphis that will complete the requirements for a bachelor's degree, may request approval to enroll concurrently in undergraduate and selected graduate courses. The Combination Senior student is not considered a graduate student and may take no more than (9) departmentally approved graduate semester hours. After the bachelor's degree has been awarded, the Combination Senior may apply for admission to The Graduate School. Former Students (Readmission)Former undergraduate students who wish to return to the university at the same level as when they previously attended and have missed any academic term excluding summer, must file an application for readmission. This form should be secured, completed, and returned to the Admissions Office. If the student has enrolled at another institution since last attending The University of Memphis, a transcript must be Services to 12:03:09 PM]forwarded to the Admissions Office. An applicant will receive favorable consideration only if eligible for readmission under all university regulations, including the quality point average (QPA) for transfer students. (NOTE: International students who wish to apply for readmission to the university must meet the deadlines for new admission for international students.) ADMISSION AS NON-DEGREE UNDERGRADUATES Applicants who wish to apply at this level are encouraged to apply by the deadlines as stated for degree- seeking students. Applications will be accepted until the first day of regular registration for the term for which the student is applying. Non-degree students who have attended other colleges will not have their previous college work evaluated for transfer until such time as they have been approved for admission as regular undergraduates. An applicant who has applied as a degree-seeking undergraduate and failed to meet admission requirements must generally wait a fall or spring semester or six months before applying for admission at the non-degree level. Applicants wishing to enter the university, and who are not presently pursuing a degree, may do so by applying for admission at this level and meeting one of the three conditions listed below: Applicants with No Previous College Applicants who have not attended another college or university must: A. provide proof of high school graduation or the equivalent; ORB. be at least 21 years of age and not a current year high school graduate. C. Applicants who are offered admission with the enhanced ACT composite, English or math subscores less than 19, or the equivalent on the former ACT, will be required to take a placement examination prior to enrollment. Based on the results of the assessment, these applicants may be required to successfully complete remedial and/or developmental courses prior to enrolling in degree credit courses. (See Remedial and Developmental Studies program description in the Independent Programs section of this catalog.) NOTE: Those applicants under 21 who complete their high school work during the calendar year in which they seek admission will not be considered at this level. These applicants must apply as degree-seeking freshmen. Applicants with Previous College Students currently/previously enrolled in an accredited college or university must submit evidence of eligibility to re-enroll at that school. Those applicants who are admitted as non-degree students are assigned to the Academic Counseling Unit for advising. Non-degree undergraduate students may not take more than 18 semester hours of work in a single term nor may they earn more than 24 semester hours total. This limit may be extended if there has been enrollment at another institution since last attending The University of Memphis. NOTE: Transient students (those regularly enrolled and in good standing at another institution who desire to attend The University of Memphis for only a limited period of time) should apply at the non-degree level. Applicants with College Degree Applicants who (1) have earned a baccalaureate degree from an accredited institution; (2) desire to take only a limited number of undergraduate courses; and (3) are not presently working toward a degree at The University of Memphis, may be admitted as non-degree students by providing proof of the degree held and the date it was earned. Non-degree students may, at any time within the stated deadlines, apply to the Office of Admissions for reclassification as degree-seeking students, effective at the beginning of the next fall or spring semester. Admission procedures and requirements are the same as those for degree-seeking undergraduate Services to 12:03:09 PM]applicants with the following clarifications: 1. An acceptable entrance examination score or the equivalent may be required for students wishing to have their level changed to degree-seeking undergraduate status. Applicants who do not meet one of the criteria outlined in the Adult Students section may chose one of the following to complete this requirement: a. Submitting an acceptable ACT or SAT score. ORb. Earn at The University of Memphis a cumulative QPA of 2.00 or greater that includes 12 hours or more exclusive of physical activity courses. NOTE: Courses defined as remedial or developmental may not be used in satisfying the 2.00 requirement. 2. The high school graduation requirement may be satisfied by any one of the methods listed in the regular undergraduate freshman section of this catalog. After students are admitted as regular undergraduates, any credit that they may have earned as non-degree-seeking students may apply toward degree programs in the college from which a degree is sought as outlined in this catalog. Concurrent Enrollment Outstanding high school students who have completed the junior year may be admitted and register for one college course per term of enrollment concurrently during their senior year provided they supply evidence of the following: 1. A minimum high school cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 3.20 on a 4.00 scale. 2. An ACT composite score of 22 or above on the enhanced ACT or the equivalent on the former ACT. 3. A recommendation from the applicant's high school principal or guidance counselor. 4. The course concurrently enrolled students register for must be taken outside of their established school day. NOTE: Departments may establish additional criteria for their courses. Admission as Audit-Only Undergraduate Persons who are not enrolled for credit courses may register for audit courses with the approval of the Office of Admissions and the appropriate department chair. These students must have the equivalent of high school graduation or be at least 18 years of age. Clearance will be for one term only. Subsequent enrollment will require an application for readmission. Those who are suffering from a permanent disability that totally incapacitates them from working at an occupation that brings in an income, and persons sixty years of age or older, who are domiciled in Tennessee, may audit courses at The University of Memphis without paying tuition charges, maintenance fees, student activity fees, or registration fees. Admission to audit will be limited on an individual classroom basis according to space availability. NEW STUDENT ORIENTATION, ADVISING AND REGISTRATION The academic year consists of two semesters: the fall semester beginning in late August or early September and ending in December; and the spring semester beginning in January and ending in May. A summer session is held between the end of the spring semester and the beginning of the fall semester of the next academic year. An orientation and academic advising program for all new freshmen is held during the summer. The sessions are conducted to acquaint entering students with various programs of study, general university regulations, and registration procedures. Students are assigned advisors who aid them in selecting appropriate courses. Assistance from the advisor, however, does not relieve students of the responsibility of studying the catalog and fulfilling all of the requirements therein for the specific degree program being pursued. Before students attain senior standing, they should consult with the college level advisor or degree analyst of the college regarding fulfillment of requirements for their chosen degree. A first-time freshman-full-time or part-time-whose ACT composite score, mathematics subscore, or English subscore used for admission to the university is less than 19 must undergo course placement testing prior to enrollment in the university. Students must enroll in and complete any required Remedial/Developmental Studies courses before enrolling in college-level courses in related areas. The Schedule of Classes, published before the beginning of each semester, contains a detailed outline of the registration procedure and course changes and additions made since the publication of the Catalog. Students are urged to study these schedules carefully and keep them available for immediate reference during the registration period and throughout the semester. Continuing students register in November for Spring and in April for Summer and Fall. New students are provided an opportunity to register at New Student Orientation programs. A late registration fee is charged beginning the first day of classes, and there is no reduction in other fees. Services to 12:03:09 PM]In no case is credit allowed in any course for which students are not duly registered and which is not entered properly on the official registration material. Registration is not complete until all fees for the semester have been paid. NOTE: Please refer to the Schedule of Classes for further information and registration procedures. STUDENT AID The university Student Financial Aid Office provides financial assistance for students in the form of scholarships, grants loans and student employment. This office counsels with students about college expenses and financial aid opportunities. All applicants for financial assistance must submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) plus any other supporting documents requested by the Student Aid Office. All undergraduate students applying for financial aid must apply for the Federal PELL Grant Program. All required forms may be obtained through the Student Aid Office upon request. The FAFSA is also available in most high school guidance offices. The preferred application deadline for fall semester is April 1. For the spring semester the preferred application date is November 1. Applications are acknowledged as they are received, and award notices are mailed when all documents are received, usually in early spring for the fall semester. All awards are made on an academic award year basis. All students must reapply for financial aid each year.SCHOLARSHIPSThe university awards several hundred academic scholarships each year in varying amounts up to $6,500.00. However, most scholarships awarded are awarded to cover the amount of in-state registration fees. Scholastic achievement, leadership qualities, and need are factors utilized in evaluating applicants. Scholarships are awarded for the academic year and are not available for summer school. Freshmen applying for scholarships must rank in the top twenty-five percent of their high school graduating classes. Currently enrolled students must have at least a 2.5 overall grade point average, and must be enrolled full-time. Current students wishing to be considered for a General University Scholarship must submit a new application each year. The General University Scholarship deadline date is March 1. However, some scholarships have an earlier deadline. Information may be obtained from the Scholarship Office, Room 204, Scates Hall. THE FEDERAL TAX REFORM ACT OF 1986 significantly changed the tax status of scholarships, fellowships, and grants received from the university. Prior to the Act, they generally were not subject to income tax. Since then, scholarship, fellowship, and grant amounts exceeding tuition, fees, course-related books, supplies, and equipment have become taxable. DISTINGUISHED SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMS Distinguished scholarships are awarded annually to entering freshmen with outstanding scholastic records without regard to financial need. The deadline to apply for distinguished scholarships is January 15. All National Merit and National Achievement Semi-Finalists will receive $1,000 per year in addition to any academic scholarship they are awarded. The University of Memphis offers the following distinguished scholarships: The Cecil C. Humphreys Presidential Scholars Program The Presidential Scholars Program offers a four-year renewable scholarship on a competitive basis for those students who score 30 or better on the ACT with a minimum 3.25 high school grade point average. The award covers in-state registration fees, a campus housing allowance, and book stipend. Eligible candidates are interviewed for evidence of sound character, good work habits, and demonstrated leadership in co-curricular activities. Recipients must maintain a 3.00 QPA the first year and a 3.25 QPA every semester thereafter and complete a 10--hour--per--year service requirement. The Cecil C. Humphreys Merit Scholarship The merit scholarship program offers a four-year, renewable scholarship on a competitive basis to those national merit finalist students who have a minimum ACT of 30 or 1200 SAT and indicate The University of Memphis as their first choice college with the National Merit Scholarship Corporation. The award provides in-state registration fees, a campus housing allowance, an annual book stipend, and a meal allowance. The recipient must live on campus to receive a campus housing allowance. The Cecil C. Humphreys Herff Engineering Scholarship Services to 12:03:09 PM]The scholarship is awarded to a freshman engineering major who has a minimum ACT of 30 or a 1200 SAT. Eligible candidates are interviewed between mid- January and mid-February. This award pays in-state registration fees, a book stipend, and an on campus housing allowance. Academic Excellence Scholarship The Academic Excellence Scholarship is a four--year renewable scholarship awarded on a competitive basis to academically talented students with outstanding leadership and achievement records. The award amount varies from $2,700 to $3,000. Applicants must score at least 30 on the ACT or a 1200 on the SAT and have a 3.25 high school GPA. All Academic Excellence Scholarship recipients must satisfy the academic program service requirement of 20 hours annually. In addition to the annual service requirements, Academic Excellence Scholars have to maintain a 3.0 QPA the first year, and a 3.25 QPA each semester thereafter. The Early Scholars Scholarship Program The Early Scholars Scholarship Program is a non-competitive guaranteed scholarship open only to beginning freshmen who will enroll for the fall term. The student must apply and be accepted for admission by January 15. Students who have an ACT score of 27 or above and a high school GPA of 3.50 will automatically qualify for the yearly cost of in-state registration fees and an annual book stipend. Continued eligibility will be based on maintaining a 3.0 cumulative QPA each semester and completing a 30--hour service requirement each academic year. The scholarship is renewable for four years of undergraduate study. Non-Resident Academic Scholarship Program This competitive scholarship is awarded to in-coming freshmen with a non-resident admission status who have a minimum ACT score of 30 or a SAT of 1200 (ACT of 27 or a SAT of 1060 for African-Americans) and a high school GPA of at least 3.25. All recipients of the program will be awarded the yearly cost of in-state registration fees, out-of-state tuition, and an annual book stipend. Continued eligibility will be based on maintaining a cumulative 3.00 QPA each semester and completing a 30--hour service requirement each academic year. TRANSFER SCHOLARSHIPS COMMUNITY COLLEGE TRANSFER SCHOLARSHIPS are awarded on a competitive basis to students transferring to The University of Memphis from a community college who have earned an Associate's Degree with a minimum cumulative QPA of 3.5. The award covers yearly cost of in-state registration fees and provides a yearly book stipend. Recipients are required to maintain a minimum cumulative QPA of 2.8 and complete a service requirement of thirty (30) hours per year. COMMUNITY COLLEGE MINORITY TRANSFER SCHOLARSHIPS are awarded on a competitive basis to African-American students transferring to The University of Memphis from a community college who have earned an Associate's Degree with a minimum cumulative QPA of 3.5. The award covers the yearly cost of in-state registration fees and provides a yearly book stipend. Recipients are required to maintain a minimum cumulative QPA of 2.8 and complete a service requirement of thirty (30) hours per year.THE COMMUNITY COLLEGE PRESIDENTIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to the student recommended by the president of each of Tennessee's community colleges. The award covers the yearly cost of in-state registration fees. Recipients must maintain a cumulative QPA of 2.8. GENERAL SCHOLARSHIPS THE U of M REGENTS SCHOLARSHIP is awarded on a competitive basis to incoming freshmen who are Tennessee residents and have scored a minimum of 26 on the ACT (or a 1070 SAT) and have a minimum high school GPA of 3.0. The award covers the yearly cost of in-state registration fees, and is renewable for up to four (4) years with the maintenance of a 2.8 cumulative QPA and the completion of a thirty (30) hour per semester service requirement. ALUMNI VALEDICTORIAN SCHOLARSHIP The University of Memphis Alumni Association provides a Valedictorian Scholarship for the top scholar from each of Tennessee's accredited or state approved high schools. The qualifications for this program are that the recipients must rank number one in their class and meet the admission requirements of the university. The award covers yearly in- state registration fees, and is renewable and is based solely on academic standing. THE OUTSTANDING MERIT MINORITY SCHOLARSHIP provides scholarship assistance to African-American Tennessee residents who have outstanding records of academic and leadership abilities. Students will be selected on the basis of a minimum ACT of 20 or SAT 780 and a high school GPA of 3.0. The award covers yearly in-state registration fees and an annual book stipend. All recipients must fulfill the 30-hour per semester work requirement. Continued eligibility will be based on completing 24 credit hours each academic year and maintaining a minimum of a 2.8 QPA each year. Services to 12:03:09 PM]HIGH SCHOOL LEADERSHIP SCHOLARSHIPS will be given annually to students from Tennessee high schools. The scholarship covers in-state registration fees and a yearly book stipend. Each high school principal/counselor in Tennessee may nominate one candidate from the high school. These students must have a minimum GPA of 2.5. The nominee's participation in a leadership role in community activities will be considered; however, primary focus will be on high school leadership (student council, class officers, club and organization office, athletics, etc.). Inquiries should be made to the Dean of Students' Office, The University of Memphis, Memphis, TN, 38152. THE GENERAL UNIVERSITY SCHOLARSHIP FUND provides scholarships varying in amount and duration to outstanding students.THE TAYLOR AND MARY RICHARDSON SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a graduate of Lake County High School in Tiptonville, TN. Applicants must apply and be accepted as freshmen, demonstrate academic ability, and financial need. THE JOHN W. AND MYRTLE P. RICHARDSON SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students in the upper quartile of their high school class who show a need for financial assistance. The scholarship may be awarded to a student already enrolled at U of M. The recipient must maintain a 3.0 QPA. The award covers in-state registration fees. THE R. C. ANDERSON SCHOLARSHIP is restricted to male students between the ages of 18 and 24 from Benton, Decatur, and Henderson counties in Tennessee. The award covers the yearly cost of in-state registration fees. Selection will be made on the basis of the quality of high school performance with particular attention given to ACT scores. THE JOSEPHINE CIRCLE SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an entering female freshman with outstanding academic achievements. THE U of M UNIVERSITY WIVES SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an upcoming junior level female student based on academic achievement. The recipient cannot be awarded any other scholarship in the same year. THE JAMES E. McGEHEE MORTGAGE COMPANY SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an outstanding high school graduate who has demonstrated academic achievement. Financial need may be considered. The recipient must be a Shelby County resident. THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS FACULTY/STAFF SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to entering freshmen and/or currently enrolled students who are the children or the spouses of current U of M Faculty-Staff. Entering freshmen must have a minimum ACT score of 20 and a high school GPA of at least 3.0. Currently enrolled students must have been enrolled at U of M for two previous semesters and have a minimum cumulative QPA of 3.0. All students must have demonstrated leadership, school, and community activities. THE HATTIE G. WATKINS SCHOLARSHIP provides scholarships to students on the basis of scholastic standing and financial need. Freshman recipients must have a minimum ACT score of 20. All recipients must enroll in at least 12 credit hours each semester and maintain a cumulative QPA of at least 2.5. THE HORACE H. WILLIS MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an incoming freshman on the basis of need for financial assistance and evidence of academic promise. The recipient must be a graduate of a Memphis City School and must have been in the upper 25% of his class. THE LESLIE GRUBER SCHOLARSHIP is awarded annually to an incoming Tennessee high school graduate who has shown academic ability of at least a 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 scale, and financial need. THE MEMPHIS HIGH SCHOOL ALUMNI SCHOLARSHIP is for graduates of Memphis high schools only. The recipient must demonstrate academic ability. Financial need may be considered. THE JERRY N. BOONE AWARD is awarded to a student currently enrolled at The University of Memphis who is in good standing academically and demonstrates financial need. Recommendations from a dean or department head is required. Available to transfer students.THE BILLY J. MURPHY SCHOLARSHIP was established in 1974 to honor former U of M Athletic Director, Billy J. Murphy, for his long service to the school. The award is made to a Memphis area student who has demonstrated financial need and shows scholastic ability. THE ABE WALDAUER MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP provides one scholarship to a Shelby County resident who demonstrates exceptional academic achievement and financial need. THE JAMES McCLENDON HIGHLAND 100 SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a Memphis area high school graduate who has demonstrated financial need and academic potential. THE HENRY M. AND LENA MEYER KAHN SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students who score 21 or above on the ACT and have a high school GPA of 3.0 or above. Preference is given to students of Jewish faith. THE JOHN WILCOX SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to one freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior at The University of Memphis. The recipients must maintain a 2.5 overall QPA. Services to 12:03:09 PM]THE LAKE COUNTY SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a Lake County High School graduate who has an intense interest in obtaining a college degree and demonstrates financial need. MIKE DRIVER SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to full-time students demonstrating academic achievement, leadership ability, and potential for future promise and leadership. Freshman recipients must maintain a 2.5 QPA. Preference may be given but not restricted to male students from White Station High School. THE DOROTHY BORUP MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students based on academic merit. Incoming freshmen must have a minimum ACT score of 21. All recipients must maintain a minimum undergraduate cumulative of QPA 2.5. Preference may be given to married students and financial need may be a consideration. THE DR. MARTIN L. KING JR. SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students based on academic merit and leadership in social justice and human rights activities in the community and at The University of Memphis. A minimum cumulative QPA of 2.75 is required. THE CROWN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students at The University of Memphis and preference shall be given to members of the Boys' Club of Memphis. THE HANDICAPPED WORKERS OF AMERICA SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students with a qualifiable disability. A minimum cumulative QPA of 2.50 is required. Financial need is a consideration. THE THELMA M. AND RICHARD L. LYNCH SR. SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students who are United States citizens and Shelby County residents. A minimum cumulative QPA of 2.50 is required. Preference shall be given to students exhibiting financial need.EPSTEIN ENTERPRISES SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a currently enrolled full-time student at The University of Memphis with a minimum QPA of 3.2. Financial need shall be considered. EXCHANGE CLUB OF EAST MEMPHIS/ALLEN SHACKELFORD SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a hearing impaired or deaf student who is enrolled full time. If no qualified applicant is chosen, the award is to go to a student training to be a teacher of the deaf.LUTHER C. McCLELLAN ALUMNI CHAPTER MINORITY SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a full-time student with a minimum cumulative QPA of 2.5. Applicant must submit letter of recommendation. Financial need and participation in extracurricular activities may be considered. African-American students may be given special consideration. UNION PLANTERS SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students on the basis of academic achievement and financial need. ADULT SCHOLARSHIP is a competitive scholarship awarded to incoming students who are 24 years of age or older. Candidates must be Tennessee residents, and selection will be based upon academic achievement, community involvement, professional goals, and financial need. The scholarship is renewable with the maintenance of a 2.5 QPA, and service to the university. Specific program guidelines may be obtained from the Adult Student Development Office or the Scholarship Office. FISHER-MAHER is awarded to a full-time undergraduate student enrolled at The University of Memphis with a minimum QPA of 2.8. Financial need will be considered. FURR-BOWMEN is awarded to a deserving student who meets admission and retention requirements of the university. Financial need may be considered. THE JUDGE BERNICE DONALD SCHOLARSHIP is funded by the Rho Gamma Chapter of Zeta Phi Beta Sorority. It is awarded to an undergraduate student with a cumulative QPA of at least 2.80. The student must be classified as at least a sophomore. United States citizenship is required. Financial need shall be considered. Special consideration may be given to African-American females. THE ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA/CHANDRA PLEASANT SCHOLARSHIP is funded by the Epsilon Epsilon Chapter of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority. It is awarded to undergraduate females with a cumulative QPA of at least 2.50. The recipient also must have earned at least a 2.50 QPA in the most recently completed semester. Classification of at least a sophomore is required. The recipient must have attended The University of Memphis for at least one year. Special consideration may be given to minorities. THE FLORA RAWLS MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to undergraduate students with financial need. Freshman recipients must have been in the upper half of their high school class. A minimum cumulative QPA of 3.00 is required and must be maintained.THE MILTON ADDINGTON SCHOLARSHIP is awarded for outstanding achievement in the field of psychology. PHI MU SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a full-time student with a cumulative QPA of 2.70 who is active in the Phi Mu Sorority. Student cannot be the recipient of any other academic scholarship. Services to 12:03:09 PM]SMITH AND NEPHEW RICHARDS SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a full-time junior or senior with a minimum QPA of 2.80. SHADRACK GRANT is awarded to a full-time undergraduate who does not qualify for Title IV aid. Student must be in good academic standing. THE SAM BOSWELL LEADERSHIP SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a current sophomore, junior, or senior with a minimum QPA of 2.0. Nominations are made to the Alumni Office. THE HERFF LEADERSHIP SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to entering freshmen based on leadership and letters of recommendation from high school or current students with cumulative GPA of 2.5 who do not qualify for existing scholarships. Recipient must maintain a 2.5 QPA in college and complete 30 hours of service to the university in a leadership capacity per semester. THE DAVID COLLINS-OMICRON DELTA KAPPA SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a voting member of The University of Memphis Omicron Delta Kappa who demonstrates exceptional leadership. Recipient must expect to receive a baccalaureate degree from The University of Memphis during the year of scholarship receipt and must enroll in graduate/professional school at The University of Memphis immediately following graduation with a baccalaureate degree. THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES THE BELLE McWILLIAMS SCHOLARSHIP recipient must be enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences, demonstrate an above average interest in American history, have diverse extracurricular activities, and demonstrate outstanding academic achievement. The recipient must be a sophomore or above with at least a 3.0 QPA. THE CARROLL BOWMAN SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a philosophy major with demonstrated financial need and academic potential. THE OPPORTUNITY FOUNDATION PAUL SCHWARTZ SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to social work majors who are seniors with a 2.5 minimum QPA. THE BOTANY BOOK AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND is awarded to a student studying botany or biology at The University of Memphis.THE LOUNSBURY GEOLOGY SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to sophomores, juniors, and seniors enrolled full-time who have a cumulative QPA of at least 3.0. The recipients must be majoring in geology, with preference given to students interested in oil and gas exploration. THE DR. PAUL H. SISCO SR. MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to full-time students majoring in geography. A minimum QPA of 2.50 is required. THE MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES SCHOLARSHIP is an award given to an incoming freshman who has declared a major in a mathematical science. All awards are four-year renewable. To be eligible a student must have an ACT score of 26 or better, or a comparable SAT score, and a high school average of at least 3.25, with a good record in mathematics. THE R. P. CLARK SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an outstanding junior majoring in mathematical sciences. Emphasis for the award is based on academic merit rather than financial need. THE JULIUS AGUSTUS DAVIES MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a graduate student majoring in anthropology with a minimum cumulative QPA of 3.0. Financial need may be considered. Recipient is selected by committee within the Anthropology Department.THE SIGMA TAU DELTA SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an outstanding senior for graduate study in English at The University of Memphis. THE MARCUS W. ORR HUMANITIES SCHOLARSHIP , established by former students and friends of Dr. Orr to honor his outstanding contributions to the university, is awarded annually to a student majoring in one of the humanities. THE CARDIOVASCULAR PRE-MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students who have been accepted into the pre-medical program. A minimum high school GPA of 3.25 and ACT score of 27 are required for freshman recipients. A minimum cumulative QPA of 3.25 and full-time status must be maintained. The recipient must enroll in at least 30 credit hours of coursework per year. THE OMAR E. SMITH SCHOLARSHIP in biology is awarded to outstanding juniors and seniors majoring in biology with emphasis in ecology. Students should apply during their sophomore year. THE PRISCILLA RUSHTON SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a full-time biology major who has demonstrated academic achievement, leadership ability, and strong potential for professional success. THE EDWARD T. BROWNE SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a full-time biology major who has demonstrated academic Services to 12:03:09 PM]achievement, leadership ability, and strong potential for professional success. THE MILTON ADDINGTON SCHOLARSHIP is awarded on the basis of outstanding achievement in the field of psychology at The University of Memphis. THE KALTENBORNS MATHEMATIC SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an undergraduate majoring in mathematical sciences with at least a 3.0 QPA. Recipient must complete 15 semester hours of coursework, maintaining a 3.5 QPA in all math courses. THE JOHN MALMO ADVERTISING, INC. SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to English and marketing students who desire to pursue careers in advertising or public relations. Financial need is considered. Recipients must be U.S. citizens. THE FOGELMAN COLLEGE OF BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS THE ALLEN ROBINSON MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a qualifying student ASPA chapter member majoring in management with a concentration in personnel administration/industrial relations at The University of Memphis. The recipient must have at least a 2.8 QPA attained through a minimum of 55 semester hours college credit. Financial need may be a consideration. THE INSURANCE WOMEN OF MEMPHIS/CLYDE BEAUMONT SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an insurance major who has at least sophomore standing. Applications may be obtained through the Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate department. THE ROBERT HUNTING JR., WHITE STATION OPTIMIST CLUB SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a junior or senior interested in the field of banking who has at least a 2.5 QPA and needs financial assistance to attend The University of Memphis. The recipient must be a West Tennessee resident. THE AMERICAN PRODUCTION AND INVENTORY CONTROL SOCIETY (APICS) is awarded to a student with junior standing or above, and an acceptable QPA. Recipient must be a production management major. THE MID--SOUTH HEALTH UNDERWRITERS ASSOCIATION SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a student with junior or senior classification, a cumulative QPA of 3.0, and a major in financial services with a concentration in insurance. The student must also be interested in a career in the life or health insurance industry. Financial need may be considered. Recipient is selected by a committee.THE MEMPHIS LIFE UNDERWRITERS ASSOCIATION SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a student with junior or senior classification, a cumulative QPA of 3.0, and a major in financial services with a concentration in insurance. The student must also be interested in a career in the life or health insurance industry. Financial need may be considered. Recipient selected by a committee. THE COOPER COMPANIES SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a junior or senior with a cumulative QPA of 3.0 and an interest in a career in the hotel industry. The recipient shall be chosen by the Scholarship Selection Committee within the College of Business and must maintain a full-time status (12 credit hours). THE THOMAS Y. OWEN SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an accounting major demonstrating both financial need and outstanding academic achievement. A minimum cumulative QPA of 3.00 must be maintained. U.S. residency is required. THE ETHEL LEWIS SCHOLARSHIP Is sponsored by the University Career Women of The University of Memphis. The scholarship is available to a junior or senior student majoring in office administration or preparing for a career as a business teacher. The recipient must be a resident of Tennessee for at least the two previous semesters and must have a cumulative QPA of 3.0 or above. THE DR. R. W. JENNINGS SCHOLARSHIP , a memorial to a former U of M faculty member, provides financial assistance to students in office administration. The recipient must have a QPA of at least 3.0 and an ACT score of at least 18 and must be a resident of Memphis or Shelby County and a graduate of a Memphis or Shelby County high school. Financial need may be a consideration.THE JOHN ELKINGTON SCHOLARSHIP in land use development is awarded to a junior student with a minimum QPA of 3.25 majoring in real estate or an allied discipline. Preference is given to a student with a career interest in the land use development field.THE JOY CRADDOCK MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is presented each year by the Women's Council of Realtors to a junior or higher level student with a QPA of 2.5 or above, and majoring in real estate or any allied discipline within the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. THE MATHIS AND MENARD INSURANCE SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a student majoring in insurance. A minimum cumulative QPA of 2.50 is required. Preference shall be given to students demonstrating financial need. THE RISK AND INSURANCE MANAGEMENT SOCIETY SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students classified as at least juniors. Recipients must have a minimum cumulative QPA of 2.60 and a major in risk management or insurance management. Services to 12:03:09 PM]THE MEMPHIS BOARD OF REALTORS/MARK SOWARDS MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students who are majoring in real estate or an allied discipline. A minimum cumulative QPA of 2.50 is required. THE LAYNE SPROLES MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students majoring in an area within the Fogelman College of Business and Economics who have a 2.5 or above overall QPA. Preference is given to students pursuing a career in some area of office administration management or accounting. JOHN MALMO ADVERTISING, INC. SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to English and marketing students who desire to pursue careers in advertising or public relations. Financial need is considered. The recipient must be a U.S. citizen. THE SHELBY GROUP, INC. SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students in the fields of marketing and management. The recipient must maintain a QPA of at least 2.50. Financial need will not be a consideration. THE MID-SOUTH COMPENSATION ASSOCIATION SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to juniors and seniors majoring in management, personnel administration or a related field. A minimum cumulative QPA of 3.0 is required. Preference shall be given to students concentrating on wage and salary administration. THE ASSOCIATED TRANSPORTATION CLUB OF MEMPHIS SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students who have completed at least one year of full-time study. A certified copy of transcripts must be submitted with the application. Selection is based on scholastic ability, financial need, and major area of study. Preference shall be given to transportation majors who are of at least sophomore standing. THE S. L. KOPALD SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students who are graduates of a Memphis City or Shelby County high school. Incoming freshmen must have a minimum ACT score of 26. The recipient must be majoring in marketing, and must maintain a minimum QPA of 3.00. THE ELEANOR O'NEILL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students majoring in advertising, public relations or journalism. Academic merit is considered. The recipient must be a full-time student and maintain a cumulative QPA of at least a 2.80. FOGELMAN COLLEGE OF BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS ALUMNI SCHOLARSHIP awarded to a junior or senior business major with a 3.0 QPA. MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a full-time senior with a minimum QPA of 3.0 and with an interest in mortgage banking as a career. THE DR. G. P. RACZ LEADERSHIP SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a full-time graduate student majoring in accounting or international business. Recipients must have a minimum cumulative QPA of 3.0 in their major and must have demonstrated leadership abilities. THE HERMAN BENSDORF II MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a junior with a declared major in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. The student must also have graduated from a high school in Shelby County and must be a current resident of Shelby County. Recipient chosen by selection committee. THE E. I. CRAWFORD/DELTA SIGMA PI SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a full-time student in good standing in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics with a minimum cumulative 2.25 QPA. The recipient must be nominated by the Gamma Zeta Chapter of the Delta Sigma Pi Fraternity and is selected by a committee. THE SHELTON AND BRUCINE HARRISON SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to entering freshmen as well as currently enrolled students majoring in either marketing or management. Entering freshmen must have been in the upper third of their high school class. All recipients must maintain a minimum cumulative QPA of 3.0. Preference shall be given to students in need of financial assistance.ACCOUNTING SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM is awarded to an incoming freshman with an ACT score of 26 or better (equivalent SAT). Recipient must also have a high school GPA of 3.5 and have been awarded the Early Scholars Scholarship. Recipient is required to complete 30 semester hours of full-time study during the academic year and must maintain a 3.33 QPA. Recipient is also required to meet admission/retention requirements of the Department of Accountancy during junior and senior years. Scholarships are sponsored by the following accounting firms: Arthur Andersen Company; Cannon & Company Accounting; Marty Hart Memorial Accounting; George B. Jones Accounting; Reynolds, Bone & Griesbeck Accounting; Ray & Ivy Accounting; Watkins, Watkins & Keenan Accounting. ZOCCOLA & ASSOCIATES ACCOUNTING SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an incoming freshman with a high school GPA of 3.5 and an ACT score of at least 26 (or SAT equivalent). Recipient must also be a recipient of an Early Scholars Scholarship award. Recipient must maintain a QPA of 3.25 and complete 30 semester hours of full-time study during academic year. Recipient must also meet admission/retention requirements of Department of Accountancy during junior and senior years. EXECUTIVE FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a junior or senior majoring in risk management and Services to 12:03:09 PM]insurance. Recipient must be a full-time student (12 credit hours) and demonstrate academic achievement. JACK J. WALLACE SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students majoring in sales/marketing or marketing. Recipient must be a junior or senior with full-time status (12 credit hours) and demonstrate a career interest in sales/marketing or marketing. THE DELTA LIFE AND ANNUITY SCHOLARSHIP (FIR) is awarded to a junior or senior with a QPA of 3.0 or a graduate student with a QPA of 3.25. Selection is based on academic ability demonstrated through coursework required by the department. THE FLEMING COMPANIES, INC. SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a junior or senior major in the College of Business and Economics who has a QPA of at least 3.0. Financial need may be considered. THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FINANCIAL PLANNING SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a junior or senior interested in a career in financial planning; cumulative undergraduate QPA of 3.0; graduate QPA of 3.25. THE BARBARA TUCKMAN MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students enrolled in economics classes. The recipient must maintain an undergraduate minimum cumulative QPA of 3.00 and a graduate minimum cumulative QPA of at least 3.20 and should be interested in economics education. THE COLLEGE OF COMMUNICATION AND FINE ARTS (Awarding of scholarships, in several cases, is contingent upon donor funding). THE VARIETY CLUB--ROBERT S. JOHNSON SCHOLARSHIP was endowed in 1974 to honor the late noted writer for the Memphis Press Scimitar. A scholarship is given to a junior or senior majoring in journalism who is seeking a career in some phase of that profession. Both financial need and scholarship are factors in the selection of the recipient. The recipient must be a graduate of a Memphis area high school. MEMPHIS GRIDIRON SHOW INC. SCHOLARSHIPS are awarded to undergraduate students at The University of Memphis who have an interest in music or journalism. ISAAC HAYES EVENING OF SOUL SCHOLARSHIPS are awarded to students majoring in theatre and dance on the basis of financial need and who have demonstrated competence in theatre arts, with special emphasis placed on African-American theatre. THE ETHEL T. MAXWELL VOICE SCHOLARSHIP is given to a voice major in the applied music degree program, Bachelor of Music. Incoming freshmen must be in the upper quartile of their high school class and have a demonstrated voice talent. THE HERBERT HERMANN MEMORIAL PIANO SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a pianist with at least a 20 ACT score or a 3.0 QPA. Auditions for jury board exams will be considered. The scholarship selection is coordinated by the Music Department piano faculty and the Scholarship Office. THE BAND ALUMNI SCHOLARSHIP FUND is awarded by the Board of Directors of the Band Alumni Chapter from candidates recommended by the band faculty. The student must be a music major with a QPA of at least 2.50. HAIR THEATRE AND DANCE SCHOLARSHIPS are awarded to students majoring in theatre and dance on the basis of need and promising talent. THE MUSIC ALUMNI SCHOLARSHIP is funded for the purpose of providing scholarships for students in the Music Department. THE SCRIPPS-HOWARD FOUNDATION, EDWARD J. MEEMAN SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a junior or senior student in journalism who intends to enter the field of newspaper journalism. Student must show academic ability and financial need. THE MEMPHIS AREA RADIO STATIONS SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an outstanding undergraduate in the area of broadcasting. The student must be a music major with a QPA of at least 2.50. Academic merit will be considered and financial need may be a consideration as well. THE ELBA GANDY MEMORIAL MUSIC SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a student studying music at The University of Memphis. THE BILLY M. JONES SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a student studying and/or working in an area that relates to community relations. This would qualify any undergraduate student studying in marketing, commercial art or any discipline within the College of Communication and Fine Arts. THE PRSA, MEMPHIS CHAPTER SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students majoring in public relations. A minimum QPA of 3.0 is required. The recipient must be a United States citizen and a member of The University of Memphis Chapter of PRSSA. THE PRESSER SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a junior majoring in music with studies not confined exclusively to music. Award is given at the beginning of student's senior year. Services to 12:03:09 PM]THE CLEMENT SANTI MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a full-time student majoring in either music or dramatic arts. Recipient is selected by a committee. THE WREG-TV / U of M BAND DAY SCHOLARSHIP is awarded annually to a student pursuing an undergraduate degree in music. THE KEITH KENNEDY (SMSARTS) SCHOLARSHIP is awarded annually to majors in theatre and dance on the basis of talent and theatrical achievement. THE ART DIRECTORS CLUB OF MEMPHIS SCHOLARSHIP is awarded annually to an outstanding art major with a concentration in graphic design and a QPA of at least 3.0. Selection is based on portfolio review. THE DANA D. JOHNSON ART SCHOLARSHIP is awarded annually to an outstanding sophomore, junior, or senior majoring in art with a concentration in fine arts, art history, or art education. A minimum cumulative QPA of 3.0 is required, and preference is given to a student with exceptional portfolio work if recipient is majoring in studio art. THE FRANCES FALLS AUSTIN SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an incoming freshman pursuing an undergraduate degree in art. Preference is given to a student with exceptional portfolio work. THE MARY MARGARET ROSS ART ALUMNI SCHOLARSHIP is awarded annually by the Art Alumni Chapter to an outstanding art major with a minimum cumulative QPA of 3.0. THE PAT KERR FINE ARTS SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an outstanding junior majoring in art with a minimum cumulative QPA of 3.0. THE INTERIOR DESIGN ALUMNI SCHOLARSHIP is awarded annually by the interior design alumni to an outstanding junior or senior interior design major with a minimum cumulative QPA of 2.8. THE CHARLES THORNTON MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a sophomore, junior, or senior who has declared print journalism as a major and who has maintained a 3.0 QPA. Financial need may be considered. THE JAN GARDNER SCHOLARSHIP (JOURNALISM--ADVERTISING) is awarded to a sophomore or junior majoring in advertising within the School of Journalism. THE KIX-106 SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students majoring in communication who have a 3.0 QPA or are in the top 25% of their high school graduating class. Recipients must maintain full-time status. THE WHRK-K-97 RADIO STATION SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to African-American students majoring in communication with a concentration in broadcasting who have a demonstrated record in radio. Recipients must have graduated from a Memphis or Shelby County high school with a GPA of at least 3.00 or have an U of M QPA of at least 2.5. THE VISUAL ARTS PERFORMANCE SCHOLARSHIPS are awarded annually to incoming freshmen pursuing degrees in art. A minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 is required, and preference is given to students with exceptional portfolio work. The Scholarships can be renewed each year contingent upon a cumulative 3.0 QPA the freshman year and a cumulative 3.25 QPA each year thereafter.ELEANOR B. O'NEIL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a worthy student majoring in journalism. LILY AFSHAR GUITAR SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a full-time student (undergraduate or graduate) enrolled in the guitar program within the Department of Music. Non-Tennessee residents and international students may be eligible for this scholarship. The recipient must have and maintain a cumulative QPA of at least 3.0. TALENT BASED SCHOLARSHIPS IN THEATRE AND DANCE are awarded annually to students entering The University of Memphis Theatre and Dance Program and rest upon theatrical talent and potential; artistic background; personal character; and intelligence and scholarship. Applicants must complete a standard departmental scholarship application and will be notified of dates for audition or portfolio presentation. Recipients must maintain full-time status and a 2.8 QPA. EMERSON A. ALBURTY SCHOLARSHIPS may be awarded to students who have demonstrated excellence in an area of communication and fine arts at their present high school or college and who will be a full time major in the College of Communication and Fine Arts. Recipients must have and maintain a 3.0 QPA or its equivalent. Scholarship recipients are to be selected by a committee composed of the dean of the college, the college adviser, and representatives of departments within the college.THE COLLEGE OF EDUCATION SARAH P. EATON SCHOLARSHIP provides scholarships for elementary education students from Crittenden and St. Francis Services to 12:03:09 PM]counties in Arkansas. THE KIWANIS CLUB OF EAST MEMPHIS MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is presented to a junior, senior, or graduate student majoring in special education and demonstrating high achievement and need. The recipient must be a Shelby County resident and must have a cumulative QPA of at least 2.50. THE HAROLD W. PERRY SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a student majoring in special education and rehabilitation who, in training as a teacher to work with the multihandicapped, demonstrates high scholastic achievement, experience, and a willingness to work with the handicapped. ALPHA DELTA KAPPA, ALPHA CHAPTER SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a junior or senior who is a Shelby County resident, has demonstrated high academic achievement and need, and plans to pursue the profession of teaching. A minimum cumulative QPA of 2.5 is required. The recipient should not be awarded any other scholarship in the same semester. THE ALPHA DELTA KAPPA LAMBDA CHAPTER SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a junior or senior who is a resident of West Tennessee, has demonstrated high academic achievement, and plans to pursue the profession of teaching. The minimum cumulative QPA required is 2.50. THE QUOTA CLUB OF MEMPHIS SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a student preparing to be a teacher of the hearing impaired or deaf. The recipient must have financial need for the scholarship. THE COLLEGE OF EDUCATION ALUMNI CHAPTER SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an education major. The applicant must demonstrate need and maintain a 3.0 cumulative QPA. The recipient must be a junior or senior. THE PAT JUSTICE MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a student of at least senior standing who is pursuing a career in the teaching profession. It is based on academic merit and is awarded to The University of Memphis by the Beta Iona Chapter of the Delta Kappa Gamma Society. THE PAT KERR INCORPORATED SCHOLARSHIP is awarded annually to a junior or senior student in good academic standing, majoring in either consumer science and education, art, or a discipline connected with the area of fashion design. THE ERNEST C. BALL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a student majoring in education who shows academic ability and financial need.THE FRANCES INA STEWART DAVIES SCHOLARSHIP assists female students pursuing degrees in home economics who maintain a QPA of at least 3.0. Financial need may be considered. THE ELLEN DAVIES-RODGERS SCHOLARSHIP assists students pursuing degrees in early childhood education with emphasis on nursery school, kindergarten, and grades 1, 2 and 3. The recipient must maintain at least a 3.0 QPA. THE BARBARA TUCKMAN MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students enrolled in economics classes. The recipient must maintain an undergraduate minimum cumulative QPA of 3.00 and a graduate minimum cumulative QPA of at least 3.20 and should be interested in economics education. THE ELMA ROANE SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a full-time undergraduate with a minimum QPA of 2.75 and/or a graduate student with a minimum QPA of 3.25. Recipients must declare a major in HPER and have a desire to work with young people through teaching, coaching, sports leadership, or athletic training. THE KATHERINE SEVEDGE (ELEMENTARY EDUCATION) SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a senior elementary education major with a 3.5 QPA who shows some need for this scholarship. The recipient must be a resident of Shelby County. THE H.E. RUMBLE AWARD is given to an outstanding student teacher graduating during the academic year in any teaching field. THE HERFF COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING THE HERFF ENGINEERING SCHOLARSHIPS provided annually through the Herbert Herff Estate are available to beginning and currently enrolled students who have demonstrated aptitude for engineering. Applications for these scholarships are submitted through the Herff College of Engineering. Recipients must have a competitive ACT score. THE MEMPHIS SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERS SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an upcoming junior engineering student. THE CALVIN STREET MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a junior who must have a cumulative QPA of 2.5. The student must be an engineering technology major and exhibit academic merit. Scholarship selection is coordinated by the chair of the Engineering Technology Department and Engineering Scholarship Committee. THE E. F. WILLIAMS ENGINEERING SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an entering freshman pursuing an undergraduate degree in Services to 12:03:09 PM]engineering. The student must have a high school GPA of at least 3.5, be a graduate of a high school within the 5th Commission District of Shelby County, and must enroll as a full-time student. The recipient must maintain a cumulative QPA of 3.0. THE FREDDIE A. FERRELL MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a junior or senior civil engineering major with a minimum QPA of 2.8. The recipient must maintain full-time status. THE RAYMOND JOHN AND MYRLIE FENNER COLTHARP MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an undergraduate engineering technology student who has at least a 2.0 QPA. and is in financial need. The recipient must be a citizen of the U.S. THE DEMPSIE B. MORRISON JR. MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to an undergraduate engineering technology student who has at least a 3.0 QPA and demonstrates financial need. Preference shall be given to students interested in construction specifications. The recipient must be a West Tennessee resident. THE RICHARD E. WHITMORE SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a Tennessee resident who is a sophomore, junior, or senior engineering student demonstrating both financial need and academic achievement, preferably majoring in construction, and an active member of the student chapter of AGC. TENNESSEE ROAD BUILDERS ASSOCIATION provides scholarships for students interested in following a transportation career and construction related to road building. Selection is made by the Tennessee Road Builders Association. The recipient must have a minimum cumulative QPA of 2.0 and be enrolled in a civil engineering curriculum. NATALIA JACOBSON MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP provides scholarships to technology students who show financial need. The recipients are selected by the Division of Engineering Technology with approval of such by the Ladies Auxiliary. Students should have a minimum cumulative QPA of 2.50 and should be interested in the home building industry. APAC TN SCHOLARSHIP FUND provides a scholarship to a senior majoring in construction technology with priority given to students taking courses in bituminous products. Selection is based on need as well as academic ability. Application may be obtained through the Division of Engineering Technology with final selection being made by the Ashland-Warren Company. The recipient must be a U.S. citizen. HOYT B. WOOTEN SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students in electrical engineering. The recipient must be a junior or senior and demonstrate academic ability and financial need. THE MR. & MRS. W. McNEILL AYRES CONSTRUCTION TECHNOLOGY GRANT is awarded to juniors or seniors majoring in construction technology. A minimum cumulative QPA of 2.50 is required. Preference shall be given to students who must work to meet college expenses. THE PICKERING MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to students majoring in civil engineering. A minimum cumulative QPA of 3.0 is required. THE ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS OF AMERICA SCHOLARSHIPS are awarded to students studying the field of construction within the civil engineering or technology departments. Selections are made based on academic merit. THE LEON D. CASH SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to juniors and seniors majoring in electrical engineering. A minimum cumulative QPA of 2.50 is required. THE JOE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP (CIVIL ENGINEERING) is awarded to an undergraduate student majoring in civil engineering with a 3.0 QPA. The recipient must be a U.S. citizen and a resident of Shelby County. THE HOME BUILDERS ASSOCIATION SCHOLARSHIP (CONSTRUCTION) is awarded to a sophomore or senior majoring in engineering technology. THE CLARENCE AND MAE WEISS ENGINEERING SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a student majoring in engineering. Preference may be given to chemical engineering students, should the major be established at The University of Memphis. The scholarship may be renewed by the department. LOEWENBERG SCHOOL OF NURSING THE SHARON L. HANSARD MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a student enrolled in U of M's School of Nursing. The applicant must be of high moral character and dedicated to service of others, possess academic ability, and have a need for financial assistance to attend U of M. THE NURSING ALUMNI SCHOLARSHIP is designed to assist deserving students in pursuing a nursing career. The applicant must maintain a 3.0 QPA or better. THE ALLENE FARRIS MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to Dyer County Nursing students based on academic merit. Services to 12:03:09 PM]REGINA MONTESI MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a registered nurse attending The University of Memphis to fulfill prerequisites for a BS in Nursing. The student must be a U.S. citizen, have a minimum cumulative 2.5 QPA, and possess academic ability.WILLIAM A. AND RUTH F. LOEWENBERG SCHOLARSHIP is designed to assist students in pursuing a nursing career. The student must be a U.S. citizen, have a minimum 2.5 QPA and show financial need. UNIVERSITY COLLEGE THE E.A. HAMILTON SCHOLARSHIP provides financial assistance to students who are firefighters or dependents of firefighters. THE UNIVERSITY COLLEGE ALUMNI CHAPTER SCHOLARSHIPS are awarded to juniors or seniors enrolled in the University College, based upon financial need. A minimum QPA of 2.50 is required. Up to three scholarships are awarded each year. SPECIAL SCHOLARSHIPS AFROTC 2, 3, AND 4 YEAR COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS cover full tuition, laboratory fees, reimbursement for textbooks and provide a nontaxable $100 per month subsistence allowance for those enrolled in the Aerospace Studies program. High school applicants must have at least a 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale, and a minimum ACT composite score of 24 (1000 SAT). The University of Memphis students may compete for 2 or 3 year full-tuition scholarships based on their cumulative QPA in all college work attempted. QPA requirements vary according to academic major. AFROTC PROFESSIONAL OFFICER COURSE INCENTIVE SCHOLARSHIP is available to ANY student enrolled in the Professional Officer Course who meets the cumulative QPA requirement of 2.5 on a 4.0 scale (2.35 minimum for most recent term completed). This scholarship pays $850 per semester toward tuition and $150 per semester for books. Students also receive a nontaxable $100 per month subsistence allowance. Contact AFROTC for information on how to join the Professional Officer Course and become eligible for this scholarship. AFROTC EXPRESS SCHOLARSHIP is designed for outstanding minority and non-minority university students pursuing degrees in areas critical to the Air Force, including Math, Nursing, Meteorology, Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Physics, and Electrical Engineering. Students must have a minimum college QPA of 2.65 to apply. Qualified minority students may apply regardless of academic major. Scholarships are available for 2 or 3 years, and cover full tuition, books and fees. Students also receive a nontaxable $100 per month subsistence allowance. ARMY ROTC SCHOLARSHIPS are 4-, 3-, and 2-year scholarships for students who desire to serve in the U.S. Army as officers. Offered by the U.S. Army, these scholarships pay tuition, provide an allowance for books and incidental fees, and pay up to $1,500 a year for subsistence. ARMY ROTC MINORITY SUPPLEMENTAL SCHOLARSHIPS are available to minority students attending The University of Memphis on an Army ROTC scholarship including Black, Oriental, Hispanic, American Indian, or other ethnic backgrounds which meet Federal minority requirements. ARMY ROTC SUPPLEMENTAL SCHOLARSHIPS are attractive supplements awarded to high ability ROTC students who are attending The University of Memphis on an Army ROTC scholarship. The scholarships are awarded based on academic merit and leadership potential. The scholarship funds can be used toward any school-related expense. ARMY ROTC LEADERSHIP SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM offers scholarships to students who attend The University of Memphis and enroll in the Army ROTC program. The scholarships are awarded annually based on demonstrated leadership and academic merit. The scholarships pay full in-state tuition and are restricted to full-time undergraduate students. The scholarships are renewable for up to 8 semesters for four-year students, 6 semesters for three-year students, and 4 semesters for two-year students. NAVY ROTC SCHOLARSHIPS pay for tuition, textbooks, fees of an instructional nature and a subsistence allowance. Four-year scholarships are awarded annually based on a competitive selection process in which consideration is given to such factors as high school records, college board scores, extracurricular activities, and leadership qualities. Students who do not receive a four year scholarship through the national scholarship competition but are sincerely interested in the challenge of becoming a Navy or Marine Corps Officer may enroll as a College Program Midshipman. These students do not initially receive financial benefits but they are eligible to compete for scholarships that provide tuition, textbooks, fees of an instructional nature and a subsistence allowance for the remaining three years of their degree program. The Navy also has a two-year scholarship program available to students beginning their junior year in college. THE JAKE FONDREN SCHOLARSHIP recipient must be a U.S citizen and an undergraduate of good academic standing who demonstrates financial need and exhibits a definite interest in golf. THE CURTIS PERSON GOLF SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to undergraduates, either male or female, who exhibit an outstanding talent for golf. Recipients must be U.S. citizens, in good academic standing, and demonstrate financial need. Services to 12:03:09 PM]THE COCKROFT LAUGHLIN BASEBALL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a student athlete who is nominated by a chartered Tennessee Fellowship of Christian Athletes Chapter, a Tennessee resident, and a member or prospective member of The University of Memphis's baseball team. THE U of M HANDBALL SCHOLARSHIP is given to students participating on the U of M Handball Team. Recipients are selected on the basis of athletic ability and leadership. BAILEY PRICHARD MEMORIAL RACQUETBALL SCHOLARSHIP assists student athletes on The University of Memphis Racquetball Team. The recipient must maintain a 2.5 minimum QPA. HELEN HAMILTON PERSON MEMORIAL GOLF SCHOLARSHIP provides assistance for female undergraduate students who are talented golfers and who maintain a minimum QPA of 2.5. C. HILLMAN ROBBINS MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP assists students who are members of The University of Memphis Golf Team. THE AVRON FOGELMAN BASEBALL SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to members of The University of Memphis baseball team. OTIS JACKSON LEADERSHIP SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to The University of Memphis student or high school senior with an overall QPA of 2.0 who is a participant on an U of M athletic team. THE TIM McCAGE MEMORIAL SOCCER SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to a freshman from the West Tennessee area who is a member of The University of Memphis Soccer Team. THE CHARLIE MULWEE SCHOLARSHIP is awarded to members of the U of M Handball Team. Recipients must be in good academic standing. GRANTSFEDERAL PELL GRANT The Federal Pell Grant is a non-repayable, federally funded, grant program for undergraduate students. The amount is determined by the financial eligibility of the student (family) and the cost of college attendance. Students must be admitted as regular undergraduates. Applicants must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to apply for this program. FEDERAL SUPPLEMENTAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY GRANT The Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant program is a federally subsidized program whereby direct gift awards may be made to undergraduate students with exceptional financial need (priority given to Pell Grant recipients). Normally, Supplemental Grants are awarded as part of the student's financial aid package. The amount awarded per academic year will range from $200 to $2,300.00 depending on the student's established need. THE TENNESSEE STUDENT ASSISTANCE AWARD PROGRAM Students who are residents of the State of Tennessee may apply for a Tennessee Student Assistance Award. To apply, a student must submit a FAFSA to the central processing agency. The Tennessee Student Assistance Corporation will then forward correspondence to the applicant. Determination as to grant recipients is made by the state agency in Nashville. LOANSFEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM The National Defense Education Act of 1958 provided funds to institutions of higher education for the purpose of making low-- interest, long--term educational loans available to students who demonstrate academic promise and who have a need for financial assistance. These loans bear no interest until six or nine months (depending on when the borrower's first loan debt was incurred) after students graduate or interrupt their course of study. The interest rate is currently five percent per year on the unpaid balance with a maximum repayment period of ten years. For a listing of repayment deferrals and cancellations, contact the Student Aid Office.FEDERAL DIRECT SUBSIDIZED STAFFORD STUDENT LOAN The Subsidized Federal Direct Stafford Student Loan is a low interest loan made through the institution. Depending on financial need, first year undergraduates may borrow up to $2,625 a year; second year undergraduates, up to $3,500 a year, and third, fourth, and fifth year undergraduate students, up to $5,500 a year. Graduate and law students may borrow up to $8,500.00 a year. The total debt an undergraduate student can incur under the program is $23,000. A graduate or law student can incur a total debt Services to 12:03:09 PM]of $65,500, including loans made at the undergraduate level. Payment is deferred until six months after the student ceases to carry at least a half-time load. The University of Memphis is a full participant in the Federal Direct Student Loan Program. Under this program all federal student loans (i.e. subsidized, unsubsidized Stafford, and Parent Loan - PLUS) are processed directly through the federal government. No banks, lending institutions or guarantee agencies are involved in processing these loans. FEDERAL DIRECT UNSUBSIDIZED STAFFORD LOAN The unsubsidized Federal Direct Stafford Student Loan is a low interest loan made through the institution. This program is not based on need; however, a student's eligibility for the subsidized Stafford Loan must be determined before an unsubsidized Stafford Loan can be considered. Interest payments are the responsibility of the borrower, even while the student is in school. Only the principal payments are automatically deferred while the student is in school at least half-time. Repayment of both principal and interest begins six months after the student ceases to be enrolled at least half-time. At The University of Memphis, all unsubsidized Federal Stafford Loans are processed directly through the federal government. No banks or lending institutions are involved in this process. ENTRANCE AND EXIT INTERVIEWS Entrance and exit interviews are required for the Federal Stafford Loan Program and are designed to provide students an opportunity to learn more about the loan programs under which they are borrowing (borrowers rights and responsibilities). FEDERAL DIRECT PLUS LOAN The Federal Direct PLUS Loan is a low interest loan program available to parents of dependent undergraduate students. This loan program is not based on financial need. Students would complete a loan request form to apply for this program. A PLUS application would then be mailed to the parent for completion. All Federal PLUS Loans at The University of Memphis are processed under the Federal Direct Loan program. No banks or lending institutions are involved under this process. FREEMAN LOAN PROGRAM The Freeman Loan Program was established for the sole purpose of providing worthy/needy students loans to help pay a part of their educational costs when other financial assistance is not available. Eligibility for this low interest, long--term loan program is based upon satisfactory academic progress and financial need. Applicants for this program must submit the FAFSA and other documents evidencing financial need. THE TEACHER LOAN SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM The Teacher Loan Scholarship Program provides that students who have been admitted to or enrolled in any accredited university in Tennessee and who are committed to teaching in the Tennessee public schools may be eligible for up to $1500 per academic year for up to four years. The program is designed to be awarded as a loan, but as trained teachers fulfill their commitment to teach in Tennessee, the loan will be forgiven or turned into a scholarship on a year-for-year basis. In other words, for each year of creditable full-time teaching in math or science under the Tennessee public school system, the recipients shall receive cancellation credit of 25% of the total amount borrowed plus interest accrued. Applications for information about the program or similar programs may be obtained from the Tennessee Student Assistance Corporation, the U of M College of Education, or the Scholarship Office. OTHER LOAN FUNDS The university maintains a number of small loan funds for assisting students with emergency type situations. Some of these loans are listed below: The General Everett R. Cook Arnold Air Society Loan Fund was established to provide financial assistance in the form of short-term loans for students enrolled in the Professional Officer Course of the Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps. The General University Loan Fund provides short-term, low interest loans up to $200 for those students in emergency situations. The General Ralph H. Wooten Loan Fund was established for the purpose of providing low interest educational loans to students enrolled in the Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps. Herbert Herff Registration Loan Program was established to provide short-term loan assistance to students who have no means of paying their registration fees. The loan is a 15% interest-bearing loan and the maximum loan amount is the in-state cost of registration fees assessed for the number of credit hours for which the student is enrolling. Services to 12:03:09 PM]NOTE: this loan will not cover out-of-state tuition. To qualify for the loan, students must meet the following conditions: (1) be classified as a degree-seeking student (Regular Undergraduate, Regular Graduate, or Regular Law Student); (2) maintain a cumulative QPA of 2.0 for undergraduate students, 3.0 for graduate students, and 2.0 for law students; (3) be enrolled in not less than six credit hours for the semester; (4) have no debts to the university. The University Book Loan Program was established to assist students who have been approved for Financial Aid payment but who are experiencing delays in receiving their awards. The loan is a 15% interest-bearing loan, with a minimum loan amount of $100 and a maximum loan amount of $250. Any amount approved will be credited to the student's Tiger Fund$ Account and must be used for textbooks and other educationally related materials. This loan (interest plus principal) must be repaid by November 1 of the Fall semester and by April 1 of the Spring semester. STUDENT EMPLOYMENT The University of Memphis offers two types of on-campus student employment: Federal Work-Study (FWS) and Regular Student Employment (RSE). Students cannot be employed under both programs at the same time. FEDERAL WORK-STUDY Federal Work Study (FWS) is a need based financial aid program. It is federally funded, university administered, and designed to help students defray the cost of post-secondary education. The amount of the award is based on need and the availability of funds. The pay will be at least the current federal minimum wage, but it may also be related to the type of work to be performed and its difficulty. Students must be enrolled for and maintain at least six (6) semester hours (Fall/Spring) and six (6) semester hours (Summer) to qualify for Federal Work Study. To apply, students must file the FAFSA and other required documents each year. REGULAR STUDENT EMPLOYMENT The Regular Student Employment (RSE) program offers on-campus, part-time jobs to students who do not qualify for Federal Work- Study. This program is monitored by the university. Application for RSE may be filed at any time during the year; however, employment is contingent upon the availability of jobs. Regular Student Employees must be enrolled at The University of Memphis for at least six semester hours. Students seeking on-campus employment should contact the University Student Employment Office. INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS International Students on permanent visas are eligible to apply for Federal Work Study. Pursuant to regulations of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, there is a restriction on the number of hours students on certain visas may work. Those students who have questions regarding employment should contact the International Student Advisor. Student Aid Refund Repayment Policy REFUND:1. When a refund is due a student and Title IV funds are involved and the financial aid awarded is equal to or in excess of the amount of the student's full tuition/maintenance fees, the Student Aid Office will determine according to federal formula the portion of federal aid funds to be returned to the federal aid account. The refund amount will be placed in the respective aid account in order mandated by federal regulations. 2. Refund applicable to non-Title IV funds will be distributed to the respective aid account in the same proportion as the aid awarded.3. Effective with the passage of the Higher Education Amendments of 1992 (the 1992-93 Academic Year), federal regulations specify the order in which Title IV programs will receive any refund amount. The order is: Federal Family Loan Programs (Stafford, SLS, PLUS), the Federal Direct Loan Program, Federal Perkins Loan Program, Federal Pell Grant Program, Federal SEOG, any other Title IV Program, institutional aid programs, and the student. 4. A 100% refund will be given in the event of death. REPAYMENT:1. When a student receives financial aid and one of the following situations occur: (a) the student is issued a contingency fee card that is not honored by the fund agency involved; (b) the student receives an overpayment due to non-eligibility or administrative error; (c) the student withdraws before the start of classes or fails to pay tuition/maintenance fees, the student must repay the total amount of aid received or overpaid. 2. If a student receives funds in excess of university charges for cost-of-living expenses from Pell Grant, Perkins Loan, Supplemental Services to 12:03:09 PM]Educational Opportunity Grant (SEOG), and/or State Student Incentive Grant programs (Federal Title IV programs), and subsequently withdraws or drops out of school: (a) the student's cost-of-living expense, as determined by the Student Aid Office, incurred up to the date of withdrawal will be compared to the amount the student received for that term for such expenses; (b) if the amount received exceeds the expense incurred, the excess amount will be considered an overpayment and must be repaid by the student. 3. The repayment amount will be placed in the respective aid account(s) in the order mandated by federal regulations. SATISFACTORY ACADEMIC PROGRESS POLICY FOR FINANCIAL AID RECIPIENTS UNDER FEDERAL AND INSTITUTIONAL PROGRAMS All students who receive financial aid must be in a degree seeking program and comply with all institutional, state, regulatory and federal policies and standards applying to financial aid programs. Students receiving athletic or other university administered awards must also meet the satisfactory academic progress standards established by the respective agency or awarding entity. In order to assure that student aid recipients make progress toward a degree, both in terms of number of hours attempted and/or completed and the cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA). The University of Memphis will utilize the following satisfactory academic progress policy.NOTE: This policy applies only to students financial aid eligibility, not their university academic standing. I. Maximum Time Frame for Completion of Degree (Quantitative Measure) 1. Undergraduate students' maximum time frame for completion of their first degree is limited to 150 percent of the published length of their educational program. For most students, the maximum limit would be 198 attempted hours, which includes all hours, withdrawals, dropped or failed classes. Undergraduate students who change degree programs will be measured against this same maximum time frame. NOTE: The maximum time frame may vary for particular degree programs. Progress will therefore be measured against the specific degree program. 2. Transfer students will be bound by the same maximum time frame for completion of a first degree. Total attempted hours will be considered toward the maximum time limit. 3. Undergraduate students' maximum time frame for a second Bachelor's Degree will coincide with the completion requirements of the second degree program, not to exceed their maximum loan indebtedness. 4. Graduate students' maximum time frame will vary depending on the particular degree program as specified in the Graduate Bulletin and/or their maximum loan indebtedness. 5. Law students' maximum time frame will coincide with the degree completion requirements and outline or required classes as listed in the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law Bulletin and/or their maximum loan indebtedness. 6. Definition of Enrollment The credit hours specified below are listed for each degree level. The minimum credit hours attempted and/or earned must coincide with the particular degree level. Full-Time Three-Quarter Time Half-Time Undergraduate 12+ sem. hrs. 9-11 sem. hrs. 6-8 sem. hrs. Graduate 9+ sem. hrs. ___ 5 sem. hrs. Law 12+ sem. hrs. ___ 6 sem. hrs. NOTE: In the Summer, law students are considered half-time with only 3 semester hours and full-time with 6 semester hours.7. Undergraduate students who are required to take remedial/development classes are limited to 30 semester hours in this area, which will not be included in the Maximum Time Frame (see I.1.) The determination of each student's quantitative progress under the maximum time for degree completion will be made after each semester. II. Cumulative Grade Point Average (Qualitative Measure) In addition to the above, students must meet academic retention standards of The University of Memphis and must meet the following cumulative GPA requirements. 1. FEDERAL GRANT AND WORK STUDY PROGRAMS Services to 12:03:09 PM]a. Undergraduate students must have a minimum 1.65 cumulative GPA at the end of their freshman year based on their enrollment status and total hours completed. b. Students who receive federal aid will be suspended from further financial aid if they do not have a minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA at the end of their sophomore year based on their enrollment status and total hours completed. c. Undergraduate students who transfer credit hours and grades from another institution will be evaluated on the number of hours transferred in addition to their grade point average (GPA) according to the guidelines specified in a. and b. above.NOTE: Hours transferred will be considered as total hours earned or completed. The transfer GPA will also be considered in evaluating a student's current academic status. 2. LOAN PROGRAMS (FREEMAN/FEDERAL PERKINS/SUBSIDIZED AND UNSUBSIDIZED STAFFORD/PLUS) a. Undergraduate and law students must maintain a 2.0 cumulative GPA to receive student loans. b. Students seeking a second Bachelor's Degree must maintain a 2.0 cumulative GPA to receive student loans. c. Graduate students must maintain a 3.0 cumulative GPA to receive student loans. d. Transfer students must meet the terms as specified in 2.a., b., and c. and have the required minimum GPA upon entering The University of Memphis to receive student loans. If the transfer GPA is not available upon entering The University of Memphis, the student's progress will be evaluated at the end of spring semester according to the terms specified in 2.a., b., and c. e. Students who fail all of their classes for the semester will not receive their second loan disbursement, if any, for the following semester. The determination of each student's qualitative progress in terms of the 2.0 GPA requirement by the end of the sophomore year (i.e. 55 earned hours) will be made at the end of each semester. Qualitative progress in other areas will be evaluated at the end of spring although all loans are subject for review at the end of each semester. Students who enroll in summer school in order to resolve the minimum GPA requirements must notify the Student Aid Office in writing of any changes for possible reinstatement of aid. III. Failure to Meet the Satisfactory Academic Progress Requirements 1. FINANCIAL AID PROBATION a. Undergraduate students with at least 24 completed hours will be placed on financial aid probation for the next semester of enrollment if they do not have a minimum 1.65 cumulative GPA at the end of the Spring semester for grant consideration only OR a 2.0 cumulative GPA for loan consideration. b. Undergraduate students who are pursuing a second Bachelor's Degree will be placed on probation the first time their cumulative GPA drops below 2.0. c. Graduate and law students will be placed on probation the first time their cumulative GPA falls below the minimum requirements (i.e. 3.0 for graduate and 2.0 for law). d. Students who withdraw from classes for the first time will be placed on financial aid probation. A second withdrawal will result in financial aid suspension. NOTE: The minimum GPA requirements must also be met or the student will be placed on suspension for their next period of enrollment. e. Financial aid payment may be continued during probation for the grant programs only. 2. FINANCIAL AID SUSPENSION a. Undergraduate students with at least 54 completed hours will be placed on financial aid suspension for the next semester of enrollment if they do not have a minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA at the end of their sophomore year. b. Undergraduate students pursuing a second Bachelor's Degree will be placed on financial aid suspension the second time their cumulative GPA falls below 2.0. c. Graduate and law students will be placed on financial aid suspension the second time their cumulative GPA falls below the minimum requirements (i.e. 3.0 for graduate and 2.0 for law). d. Students who withdraw from classes the second time will be placed on financial aid suspension. Services to 12:03:09 PM]e. Undergraduate students pursuing a first Bachelor's Degree who have exceeded the 150% time frame for completion of their educational program will be placed on financial aid suspension. f. Students will not be eligible for financial aid and will not receive financial aid payments during a period of suspension. 3. REMOVAL FROM SUSPENSION a. Students will be removed from suspension when they meet the specified cumulative GPA requirements as outlined in Section II. At that time, they will again be able to receive financial aid. Students should also notify the Student Aid Office in writing when there is a change in their cumulative GPA which would bring them up to the minimum required level for receipt of financial aid. b. Students receiving financial aid who have been placed on financial aid suspension due to withdrawal from all classes for the second time will need to follow the appeal process as outlined in Section III. D. 4. APPEAL OF FINANCIAL AID PROBATION/ SUSPENSION Students placed on financial aid probation or suspension may appeal that decision to the Director of Student Aid within 30 days of the date of notification. The appeal must be prepared in writing and accompanied by appropriate supporting documents. Reasons that may be acceptable for an appeal are: a. Serious illness or accident to the student. A medical statement from a physician will be required. b. Death, serious illness, or injury in the immediate family (parent, child, spouse). A physician's statement or death certificate will be required. c. Administrative error by The University of Memphis. The appeal will receive an Approval or Denial from the Director or a Student Aid designee. If not satisfied with the decision of the Director or designee, students may appeal to the Assistant Vice Provost for Enrollment Services. Subsequent appeals may be made to the Vice Provost for Student Affairs, and if deemed necessary by the student, to the President of The University of Memphis. 5. FINANCIAL AID FRESH START Students who are enrolled in this program, (they have been away from all academic institutions for at least seven years), will have their academic progress monitored on a term by term basis, as outlined in the policies above. Students would also be expected to maintain a GPA of at least a 2.5 by the end of each semester. REGISTRATION AND STUDENT RECORDS REGISTRATIONAll continuing students are expected to register during October and/or November for the following Spring semester and in April for the following Summer and Fall. Fees are normally due approximately one month prior to the beginning of the term. Students are responsible for becoming familiar with the deadlines, rules and regulations related to registration which are published each term in the Schedule of Classes. STUDENT RECORDS The Office of the Registrar--Student Records provides grade reporting and transcript (academic record) services. Grades are mailed to the student's permanent address one week following the last final exam for the semester. Transcripts are issued at the request of the student in person, by letter, or by FAX. Students should include social security number, name as of the last date of attendance, and signature on the requests. There is no fee. The University is required by state law to withhold grade reports and transcripts from students who have outstanding financial obligations to the University. STUDENT INFORMATION SERVICES Student Information Services provides services to students related to their current term enrollment and their personal student biographic/demographic data. These include: schedule adjustments (drop/add/withdrawal), name changes, address changes, etc. This office (Administration Building, Room 119) is open in the evenings Monday-Thursday until 7:00 p.m. and on Saturday, 8:30 a.m.--noon. In the evenings representatives from Financial Aid, the Bursar's Office, and Admissions are also available to provide assistance. Services to 12:03:09 PM]VETERANS SERVICES Location: Veterans Services reports to the Office of the Registrar, Administration Building, Room 119. Mission: The Office of Veterans Services provides assistance for eligible National Guard/Reserves, veterans and/or dependents who enroll at The University of Memphis and who make application for: (1) Programs of Education or Training, (2) VA Tutorial Services, or (3) VA Educational Loans. Other assistance includes: liaison with Veterans Administration Regional Office, counseling, and counseling referral for personal, family, career, financial, and educational problems. Applications for VA Benefits: Those who will be using VA educational assistance while enrolled at The University of Memphis should contact the Office of Veterans Services. They should also be prepared to furnish the following items as applicable: 1. The number 4 copy of the DD214 or other armed forces separation papers. NOTE: Original or certified copies only. Copies can be made and certified in Memphis at the Vet Center, 1835 Union, Suite 100. 2. Copy of Delayed Enlistment Contract. 3. Copies of marriage licenses and children's birth certificates. 4. Copy of final divorce decree if either veteran or spouse has been previously married. 5. VA file number if benefits have been used previously. Advance Pay: Advance payment is available for eligible veterans and dependents who plan to enroll on at least a halftime basis. Applications will be accepted in the Veterans Services Office as early as 90 days before the term begins but no later than 45 days before the beginning entry. Generally, the advance pay deadline for the fall semester is around July 15, while spring semester deadline is around November 15. Advance pay checks include an allowance for the month or fraction thereof in which the course begins and the allowance for the following month. Advance pay checks are mailed to the school for delivery to the student at registration. Initial applicants who do not apply for advance pay may expect their check to be mailed to their home within six to eight weeks after registration. Enrollment Status: For VA benefits during the regular terms (Fall and Spring) 12 semester hours constitute a full-time load for undergraduate students; 9 hours is full-time for graduate students. However, training time for summer at the undergraduate and graduate rate is based on the number of semester hours attempted per term and the number of standard class sessions attended per week. The Veterans Administration places restrictions on those who receive veterans educational benefits. Some of these restrictions are: (1) regular class attendance, (2) satisfactory academic progress, and (3) adherence to a specific degree plan. Degree Plan: Only courses that are required for the degree and major may be certified for VA pay. VA will not pay for repeat courses if the grade already earned is accepted by U of M and will fulfill graduation requirements toward the declared degree and major (even if the course was taken at another institution with or without use of the G.l. Bill). VA will not pay for elective courses in excess of those needed to meet graduation requirements. Certification: Enrollment certifications are mailed to the appropriate VA Regional Office upon receipt of the Veterans Data Sheet. Students are required to submit this form to the Veteran Services Office at U of M each semester. Students will be certified on a term--by--term basis. Pre-certification will be done only when a request for advance pay is made. ADULT STUDENT DEVELOPMENTAL SERVICES Adult and Commuter Student Services Adult and Commuter Student Services serves adult students who are beginning or returning to school after some time in the work place or home, and traditional and non-traditional age commuter students. Located in the University Center, Adult and Commuter Student Services maintains the Adult information Center, a resource area where services and special programming for this student population is posted regularly. Information on the Adult Scholarship program is also available. The Adult Student Association, a student organization geared toward the social needs of the returning student is maintained through Adult and Commuter Student Services. This organization provides an informal way for students to receive support during their educational experience and to express concern about any particular issues that may arise. "Lifelong Learning with Friends" is the motto of the Adult Student Association, which serves as a network for the returning student. Evening Services A full range of services is available to students who attend classes during evening or weekend hours. As part of the Registrar's Services to 12:03:09 PM]Office, Evening Services/Academic Status is open noon to 8:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday and from 8:30 a.m. to noon on Saturday. The Evening Services office serves as an information source as well as providing registration assistance; change of major counseling; transcript request and evaluations; undergraduate and graduate drops and withdrawals; referrals to other offices such as Financial Aid, Personal Counseling, and Career Counseling; traffic and parking fees; fees for tests, laboratories, library fines; Tiger Fund$ deposits. Other offices providing evening hours are Admissions, Financial Aid, MINI college, academic counseling, personal and career counseling.MINI College MINI College is a special entry and reentry program for adults who are entering college for the first time, and for those who are returning after being out of school for any number of years. It is designed to familiarize the non-traditional student with the academic programs and services available and to provide individual assistance in the admissions and registration procedure. Admission requirements are the same as those for the undergraduate application categories described earlier in this section. Each fall and spring semester, MINI College offers a schedule of basic, entry level credit courses. Most classes meet just once a week and are scheduled at convenient times, both day and evening, for the part-time student. A student electing to take MINI College courses will receive regular credit and attend classes with other returning adult students. For further information, contact the MINI College Office. Child Care Center Child care services are available for The University of Memphis students. Space is available on a first come/first serve basis. The center accepts children between the ages of 15 months and 12 years. The cost is $1.50 per hour/per child with a $20 refundable registration fee. During the fall and spring semesters, the center's hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and Saturday 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. The summer semester operating hours are Monday through Thursday from 6:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. and Friday from 6:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Hours of operation may vary due to enrollment. For additional information, come to the Child Care Center located at 3875 Tiger Paw South (Northeast of the Central Avenue Parking Lot -- adjacent to the university townhome community). STUDENT DEVELOPMENT The quality of The University of Memphis is reflected not only in the content of its academic programs but also in the array of services and activities provided for its students. At U of M, satisfying the individual needs of students has become an ever-increasing commitment, regardless of whether those needs are personal, academic, psychological or social. The university strives to make student life fulfilling in an environment conducive to academic growth. The range of support services provided includes counseling, skills training, tutoring, health care, and job placement, to name only a few. THE CENTER FOR STUDENT DEVELOPMENT The Center for Student Development is a comprehensive counseling and assistance facility providing academic, personal/psychological, and career resources for students to draw upon as they confront the developmental tasks concomitant with their educational experience. The Center for Student Development encompasses a variety of free counseling and helping activities through its various components. As part of its educational mission the center offers an APA approved Pre-Doctoral Internship Training Program for graduate students in clinical and counseling psychology. Academic Counseling All freshman, transfer, and readmitted students who have not decided upon an academic major are assigned to an academic counselor. The purpose is to provide academic counseling that will prepare students for enrollment in one of the degree-granting units once they have chosen a major. The counselors are available to discuss the many academic programs offered and to help the students explore these possibilities as they relate to their personal and educational goals. Personal/Psychological Counseling The personal/psychological counseling component provides students with the opportunity to discuss and explore any concerns and feelings that are of importance to them. Problems in interpersonal relationships, feelings of loneliness or inadequacy, family or marriage difficulties, depression, the inability to concentrate or study, or simply "feeling the need to talk things out" are all examples Services to 12:03:09 PM]of concerns that are dealt with through personal counseling. The staff is professionally trained and experienced in working with a wide variety of student concerns through individual and group counseling, testing, programs and workshops, and referral to additional service centers on and off campus. The counselors subscribe to the confidentiality policy in the ethics and guidelines established by the American Psychological Association. Career Counseling Career Counseling affords students an opportunity to explore self, career options, obtain information relating academic majors to career choices, evaluate employment outlook information, and develop realistic career goals. Through counseling, discussion and testing each person is given the opportunity to make a well-considered career choice. The Testing Center The Testing Center provides testing services for university and professional school admissions purposes as well as for licensure and certification in a variety of professional areas. The center also offers a variety of personality and psychological tests. Educational Support Program The Educational Support Program provides free tutorial programs in reading, English composition, mathematics, foreign language, and learning skills. Private tutors for specific courses are also available. Individual and group consultation, as well as audio-visual and programmed instruction, are available. Athletic Academic Services The Center for Athletic Academic Services is located in the Elma Roane Field House and provides counseling, tutoring, scheduling assistance, career planning and special services for all The University of Memphis student athletes. The center also handles NCAA interpretations and the academic eligibility requirements of student athletes. STUDENT DISABILITY SERVICES The Office of Student Disability Services provides information and support services that enable students with disabilities to take full advantage of the educational opportunities at The University of Memphis. Services include pre-enrollment planning; early registration; coordination of adapted campus housing; attendant referral; arranging readers, notetakers, tutors and interpreters; test accommodations; assistance in securing special materials such as recorded texts, large print and braille; coordination of adaptive equipment and computer aids; assistance arranging classroom accommodations; campus shuttle service; supportive guidance and counseling; and liaison with state rehabilitation agencies. Some of these services require two to three months advance notice to arrange. Applicants should provide sufficient notification to the Office of Student Disability Services of their needs and expected date of enrollment. Given adequate time, experienced staff can provide assistance in evaluating individual needs and in developing a plan for appropriate disability services. All persons who have a permanent disability are encouraged to register with the Office of Student Disability Services at the time they are admitted to the university. This registration entitles qualified students with disabilities to the legal rights provided under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. For more information, please contact the Director of the Office of Student Disability Services. Persons with documented learning disabilities should contact the office for additional information and assistance with the admissions application process before applying to the university. UNIVERSITY PLACEMENT Placement services are provided to assist graduating students and alumni in locating career employment in business, education, government, industry, and service organizations. Services provided include: campus interviews with employer representatives; job listings of employment opportunities; a career information library; placement counseling; computerized job matching/referral; placement credentials; and interviewing skill and resume writing development programs. Registration for services is required prior to use and should be completed by graduating seniors and graduate students at least two semesters before graduation. Part-time and temporary employment opportunities for current students are coordinated by a branch office of Tennessee Employment Security. STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES Services to 12:03:09 PM]Location and Hours: The Student Health Center, located at the corner of DeSoto and University, is open Monday through Friday, 8:00 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. A physician is present from 9:00 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. daily. Major emphasis is on the diagnosis and treatment of short-term acute, episodic medical illness on an outpatient basis. Eligibility for Care: Students will be given priority for services; however, medical services are available to faculty and staff members for a nominal fee. Although services are free of charge, each visit requires that the individual present a validated identification card before treatment, except in cases of emergency. If there are health emergencies after hours, students should call Public Safety (678-HELP). Services: The center is staffed by physicians, nurse practitioners, registered nurses, medical and x-ray technologists, and various administrative support personnel. A family planning clinic is available by appointment. In addition, the center will loan crutches and wheelchairs, verify disabilities, and authorize Handicapped Parking decals. Prescriptions may be filled at the pharmaceutical dispensary for students only. Charges: There is no charge for routine diagnosis and treatment. However, there is a nominal charge for certain specialized tests sent to outside labs. When more in-depth treatment is needed, the patient is referred off-campus, and the patient is responsible for all charges incurred for these services. The patient will be asked to pay the Health Center in advance of testing. The Shelby County Health Department, Family Planning Clinic, will see patients on a sliding scale fee by appointment. Health Insurance: The university has authorized and approved a private insurance company to provide coverage, which the student pays for directly. Details pertaining to this insurance are available from the center at the time of registration. STUDENT LIFE Student Life is one of the many components of the university community that offers students a wide variety of learning experiences outside the formal classroom setting. Included in the area of Student Life are activities including: Student Government, Greek Affairs, Student Organizations, Religious Affairs, Black Student Association, and Student Activities Council. Information may be obtained from the Office of the Dean for Student Life. BRIDGEThe University of Memphis BRIDGE is a center that connects existing services related to substance abuse. It also develops new strategies for pro-active substance abuse prevention including assessment of student attitudes and behaviors, development of a peer educator network and a peer theatre troupe, plus support for the creation of alcohol-free social activities for students. Campus Information System (Gopher) The computerized Campus Information System (CIS), operated by the Computer Services Department in the Administration Building, has replaced the Student Information System (SIS) formerly located in the University Center. CIS is accessed via PCs and computer terminals linked to the University VAX mainframe computer. Access is provided to databases and files containing research and statistical information as well as community news and items of interest to University of Memphis users.Departments may submit information and items of interest for posting on the CIS. Additional information is available at Computer User Services in the Administration Building, Room 134. CheerleadersThe University of Memphis cheerleaders are one of the "Premier College Squads in the Nation." The cheerleading squads consist of a Varsity team (up to 10 couples) and an all-women "Blue Squad" that has 14 to 16 members. The mascot, "Pouncer," and both squads cheer at all University of Memphis home football and basketball games. The Blue Squad also cheers for the Lady Tigers' home games in the Field House on The University of Memphis campus. The cheerleaders and "Pouncer" are involved in an array of community and university activities. For additional information, contact the Cheerleading Office, Field House, Room 375. General Fraternities and Sororities Fifteen national fraternities and eleven national sororities are active on The University of Memphis campus. The university strives to maintain a strong Greek system through coordination of Greek activities provided by the Office of Student Organizations and Greek Affairs in areas of social service, scholarship, spiritual life, social development, and sense of leadership. Fraternities: Alpha Tau Omega, Alpha Phi Alpha, Delta Chi, Kappa Alpha, Kappa Alpha Psi, Kappa Sigma, Lambda Chi Alpha, Omega Psi Phi, Phi Beta Sigma, Phi Gamma Delta, Phi Sigma Kappa, Pi Kappa Alpha, Pi Kappa Phi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Sigma Services to 12:03:09 PM]Chi.Sororities: Alpha Chi Omega, Alpha Gamma Delta, Alpha Delta Pi, Alpha Kappa Alpha, Delta Gamma, Delta Sigma Theta, Phi Mu, Pi Beta Phi, Sigma Gamma Rho, Sigma Kappa, and Zeta Phi Beta. Intramurals and Recreation Services As a department within the Division of Student Affairs, the intramural and recreation program is designed to fulfill a vital educational function and provide students, faculty and other members of the university community the opportunity to participate in a variety of activities for personal enjoyment and satisfaction. The Physical Education Complex provides excellent facilities for instructional, intramural and sports programs. The sports activities, including individual and group, range over approximately 30 different sports. The division supervises recreational use of the Physical Education Complex; provides for the reservation of tennis courts, racquetball-handball courts and other play areas; organizes intramural tournaments; sponsors leisure course series, clinics and events; and coordinates a sports club/activity program. The student oriented Intramural and Recreation staff gives personal attention to the needs of individual students, faculty and staff. Judicial Affairs The Office of Judicial Affairs is responsible for the administration and coordination of student disciplinary actions and traffic appeals. It also coordinates the publication of the Student Handbook and is a legal resource for the interpretation of policy and implementation of new policies which affect students. The Office of Judicial Affairs is located in the University Center, Room 105. Minority Affairs The Office of Minority Affairs advises African American students. The office deals with the social, academic, personal, and financial concerns of minority students. Besides advising individual students, the office advises 15 different organizations for African American students. The Black Student Association is a multipurpose organization that focuses on enlightening individuals about the black culture. It provides a support system that addresses the students' academic needs and also provides an U of M black alumni network that aids the students' employment needs. The BSA produces a monthly paper, The BSA Torch, which keeps the students informed of issues relating to African Americans at U of M and in the Memphis community. The BSA and fourteen (14) other African American student organizations sponsor approximately 160 cultural, social, and academic programs during the academic year. Office of International Students The Office of International Students advises international students regarding immigration, health, housing, social, personal, and financial concerns. Besides advising individual students, the office advises the Vietnamese Students Association and the International Students Council. The council represents six national student associations: the African Student Association, the Chinese Student Association, the Indian Student Association, the Korean Student Association, the Malaysian Student Association, and the Muslim Student Association. The office also organizes a four-day orientation for new students each semester as well as social and cultural events that encourage international students' involvement in the campus community and help ease their transition into the American way of life. International Night, the biggest event of the year, provides an opportunity for the international students to share their traditional food and entertainment with the campus and the Memphis community. Pom Pon Squad The University of Memphis PomPon Squad is the top dance team in the country having won the National Championships nine times. There are two squads, the Varsity and Junior Varsity. Both squads perform at all home football games. The Varsity attends all men's basketball games, performing half-time shows at selected games. The Junior Varsity performs at the Lady Tigers' home games. For additional information, contact the PomPon Office, Field House, Room 377. Religious Affairs Several religious organizations maintain meeting facilities close to campus or meet in university facilities. These organizations provide activities adapted to the needs of university students and are designed to aid in the continuing religious growth and development of members of the university community. The organized religious groups include: Baptist Student Union, Barth House (Episcopal Student Center), Bellevue Christian Fellowship, Campus Crusade for Christ, Catholic Student Center, Chi Alpha Christian Fellowship, Christian Student Center (Church of Christ), Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Gospel Choir, Inter-Faith Council, Islamic-Quranic Association, Jewish Student Union, Latter Day Saint Student Association (Mormon), Muslim Student Association, Navigators, Power of Pentecost, 20th Century Christians, United Students for Christ, Wesley Foundation (United Methodist), and Westminister House (Presbyterian). Services to 12:03:09 PM]Residence Life Residence Life, located in Richardson Towers, Room 011, administers The University of Memphis residence halls and the programming of student activities within these buildings. Residential communities provide an environment to enhance individual growth and development through the implementation of educational, cultural, social, and recreational programs that encourage interaction among residents, faculty, and staff. During 1994, over 2,000 students lived on campus. Names and rental charges for each residence hall can be found in the Expenses section of this bulletin. Student Activities Council The Student Activities Council is the principal programming body for the university community. It is composed of student volunteers for the purpose of providing social, cultural, recreational and educational activities, and events that appeal to all tastes. Concerts, fashion shows, coffee house entertainment, movies, speakers, and the Madrigal Dinner are just a few of the many activities planned and facilitated by Student Activities Council. Student Government The Student Government Association represents student opinion in working with other university components. Students may serve in the executive, legislative, or judicial branch or on committee. Student Organizations Approximately 150 student groups representing a broad range of interests are registered with the university. For information, inquire at the Student Organizations Office in the University Center. Student Volunteerism Office The Student Volunteerism Office acts as an information center regarding current and future programs that have community service components. It acts as a liaison between individual student volunteers and community agencies of similar interest and concern. The office also publicizes and encourages service activities within and among existing student organizations at The University of Memphis.Students and organizations interested in community service opportunities should contact the Student Volunteerism Office, University Center, Room 427. University Center The University Center is the focal point for activities and events in the university community. Along with its many programs and activities, the center provides conveniences such as food service, automatic banking, bookstore, ticket office, gameroom, rental lockers, television rooms, vending, copy machine, public phones, and central scheduling and information area. The center is an organization with programs designed to encourage students and other members of the community to meet and share interests and talents in an action-learning setting. OTHER ACTIVITIES AND SERVICES Intensive English for Internationals (ESL) The intensive English language program has been developed to meet the needs of internationals in Memphis and the surrounding area, and from abroad. English language instruction for non-native speakers of English is offered at five levels of instruction. For students coming from abroad, the program follows the university calendar for the fall and spring semesters. An eight-week session is offered during the summer. Internationals residing locally can enroll for shorter periods of time. Classes designed to meet special needs can also be arranged outside of those regularly scheduled. International Studies and Study Abroad The Office of International Studies administers semester and year-long exchange programs and facilitates study abroad programs for shorter periods of time. Exchanges are currently available at more than 100 colleges and universities in some 35 countries through the International Student Exchange Program. Some of the ISEP programs are taught totally in English and others totally in the native language, but many provide the opportunity to increase language skills while taking other courses in English. Direct or one-on-one exchanges are also administered by International Studies. The University of Memphis currently has agreements for such exchanges with universities in Belgium, China, Czech Republic, France, Japan, and the United Kingdom. Negotiations to add to the number of exchange partners are underway, both direct and through ISEP. Services to 12:03:09 PM]Short term study programs in the summer are offered by faculty members of The University of Memphis and through consortia and affiliated programs. Spanish study in Costa Rica and the British Studies Program in London are among the more popular offerings. The Office of International Studies also maintains a library of information on other American and international programs for semester or summer study around the world. International Student Identification Cards which provide insurance and discounts for students traveling abroad may be purchased at the Office of International Studies. Competitive Study Abroad Scholarships are available to academically able students. These awards provide funds for travel to the place of study and a small stipend. Generally, financial aid which is available for on-campus study, is available for study abroad as well.The Office of International Studies welcomes the opportunity to advise students on the possibilities of study abroad. Pre-Law Law schools do not prescribe a definite pre-law curriculum for prospective applicants. Therefore, there is no single major required for pre-law students. Instead, law schools seek to attract applicants possessing a broad educational background. The University of Memphis offers a minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts, designed for students who intend to enter the legal profession. Coursework in the minor introduces students to the major intellectual traditions of the West and assists in the development of the skills necessary for future success in law school. The Pre-Law Society provides students the opportunity to meet practicing attorneys, judges, law school faculty and admissions officers as well as other students with similar interests. The society, in cooperation with the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, sponsors an annual orientation afternoon at the law school during which members have the opportunity to attend classes and meet law faculty and students. Students interested in law school, the minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts or the Pre-Law Society should contact the Pre-Law advisor in Mitchell Hall, Room 207. The University Store The University Store is managed by Barnes and Noble Bookstores, Inc. for the convenience of students, faculty and staff. In addition to textbooks and required school supplies, the store handles a large selection of general books, complete line of insignia clothing and gift merchandise, microcomputers, art supplies, and a variety of items for the convenience of the resident students. Post Office The University Post Office has post office boxes available for rent by students and faculty. Students living in university housing have post office boxes located in these facilities. Student mail should be addressed as follows: Student Name The University of Memphis Campus Box 52XXXX Memphis, TN 38152 Automobiles on Campus Each student who expects to operate and park any motor vehicle on the campus of The University of Memphis must register it in the Parking Office by receiving an official permit (hangtag). Permits (hangtags) are permanent and must be displayed when parking a vehicle on campus. Each student will be issued a permit (hangtag) by the Bursar or the Parking Office when the student pays Registration (Enrollment) Fees. The student will receive a validation sticker for placement on the original parking permit every subsequent semester that Registration (Enrollment) Fees are paid. A valid parking hangtag does not guarantee a parking space on university property. It is the driver's responsibility to locate an authorized parking space and abide by the parking rules and regulations of The University of Memphis. Citations will be issued and vehicles may be towed for violations. Art and Music The Art Department sponsors visiting artists and lecturers, workshops and symposia. The University Museum provides students and the community with a full exhibition schedule of contemporary and historical art, as well as permanent collections of African Art, Egyptian Art, contemporary prints, and other varied pieces. The Department of Music offers activities and programs in which students may participate as individuals or as groups. Qualified Services to 12:03:09 PM]students, regardless of major, may participate in the numerous musical groups including the University Symphony Orchestra, the university bands, and a variety of choral groups and small instrumental ensembles. Additionally the university's state-of-the-art recording studios are open for student use after proper instruction. TheatreStudents are invited by the Theatre and Dance Department to participate backstage or audition for roles in plays produced in the main season, in the daytime Lunchbox Theatre, or in the original script program. CommunicationPrograms in radio, television, and film are offered by the area of Communication Arts. WUMR-FM 92 is student operated. Two state- of-the-art television/film studios also offer students the opportunity to participate in broadcasting quality productions. PublicationsStudents write and edit The Helmsman, the university newspaper (4 issues per week). The DeSoto, the university yearbook, is published under the auspices of Student Affairs. Goodwyn Institute Lectures The lectures and addresses offered by the Goodwyn Institute cover a variety of subjects. The purpose of these lectures is to provide a system of continued education for adults and youths along general and special interests, concentrating on illustrated lectures covering all areas of the world, and to afford authoritative and accurate information upon practical and cultural subjects. HONORS AND AWARDS Honor Societies Alpha Epsilon Delta, international premedical honor society Alpha Kappa Delta, the national honorary society in sociology Alpha Lambda Delta, a national honor society for freshman students Beta Beta Beta, national honor society in biology Beta Gamma Sigma, the national honor society for business majors Chi Beta Phi, a national science and mathematics honorary society Gamma Beta Phi, an honor and service society Gamma Theta Upsilon, a national honorary society for geography students Golden Key National Honor Society, a national interdisciplinary honor society for academically outstanding juniors and seniors Honors Students Association, an organization for University Honors students Kappa Delta Pi, a national honor society in education Kappa Omicron Nu, a national honor society for home economics students Kappa Tau Alpha, a national honor society for journalism and mass communications juniors and seniors Liberal Arts Honor Society, a local academic honor association founded by Phi Beta Kappa faculty members Mortar Board, a national honor society established to provide for cooperation among honor societies for seniors Omicron Delta Epsilon, an international economic honor society Omicron Delta Kappa, the National Leadership Honor Society Order of Omega, a national honor society for members of Greek fraternities Services to 12:03:09 PM]Phi Alpha Theta, the national honor society in history Phi Eta Sigma, a national freshman scholastic honor society Phi Kappa Phi, a national scholastic interdisciplinary honor society Pi Delta Phi, a society to recognize outstanding scholarship in French language and literature Pi Kappa Lambda, a national honorary society for music students Pi Sigma Alpha, the national honor society in political science Pi Tau Sigma, the national honor society in mechanical engineering Psi Chi, the national honor society in psychology Sigma Theta Tau, Beta Theta Chapter at Large of the International Nursing Honor Society Sigma Delta Pi, the national Spanish honor society Sigma Pi Sigma, a national honor society for physics students Sigma Tau Delta, a national honor society for English language and literature students Tau Beta Pi, a national engineering academic honor society Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges, one of the highest honors that a student may receive at The University of Memphis Honors and Awards THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES THE BETA BETA BETA AWARD is annually presented to the graduating senior and member of the society who graduates with the highest grade point average in biology. BIOLOGY FACULTY AWARD is presented to the undergraduate student who makes the most significant contribution to the department. THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CHEMISTRY AWARD is presented to the graduating chemistry major who best demonstrates leadership, ability, character and scholastic ability. THE DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE annually presents the Mu Sigma Chi Professional Criminal Justice Award to the student of criminal justice deemed outstanding in professional activities. THE DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH offers several awards: a. The Distinguished Scholarship Award presented each year to the English major whose work demonstrates an unusually high order of academic excellence. b. Honors Thesis Award presented in recognition of the outstanding honors thesis by a student in the English Honors Program. c. Giem and Collins Writing Contest: Presented for excellence in student writing produced in freshman and sophomore English courses. Rules and entry forms are available in Patterson, Room 463. FRENCH GOVERNMENT ASSISTANTSHIPS: The French Government through the French Embassy in The United States, on the recommendation of the French Section of the Department of Foreign Languages, each year awards one or more assistantships in France for the teaching of English in secondary schools. THE DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGICAL SCIENCES annually presents the Outstanding Senior Award to the outstanding major exhibiting scholarship, leadership and service. THE DEPARTMENT OF GEOGRAPHY AND PLANNING presents each year the Paul H. Sisco Award to the outstanding senior geography major. THE DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY annually presents the Tennessee Historical Commission Award to that senior student of history judged by the faculty to be the outstanding history major. The department also presents an award for the outstanding paper Services to 12:03:09 PM]presented by an undergraduate. THE DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES annually presents the R. P. Clark Memorial Award to an outstanding junior. THE DEPARTMENT OF PHILOSOPHY OUTSTANDING STUDENT AWARD is presented to that student of philosophy chosen on the basis of high scholastic achievement papers written, and performance in senior honors seminars. THE DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS each year presents the Outstanding Student Award to the most distinguished senior physics major. THE DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL SCIENCE presents the Outstanding Student Award each year to the graduating senior majoring in political science who has compiled the best record of academic achievement in the discipline. Also The John W. Burgess Award is presented for meritorious achievement in political science, and the Pre-Law Award is presented to the political science major whose pre-law studies demonstrate high promise for a distinguished legal career. THE DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHOLOGY presents annually The Dr. Milton C. Addington Award for Excellence in Psychology to the senior psychology major exhibiting the most individuality, interest, initiative, integrity, creative ability and originality. THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY annually presents The Outstanding Student Award to the senior student judged to be the outstanding sociology major. Also the DIVISION OF SOCIAL WORK presents the Graduate with Distinction Award to the graduate who has been selected for dedication, achievement, and potential for professional service. ALPHA EPSILON DELTA , pre-medicine and allied health professions honor society, annually presents the Student of the Year Award to the member who has demonstrated outstanding leadership, loyalty and responsibility. CHI BETA PHI SCIENCE AWARDS: Students who have attained the highest academic average during their four years of study in each of the following disciplines: biology, chemistry, geology, mathematical sciences, physics, and psychology are honored by having their names inscribed on a plaque. THE FOGELMAN COLLEGE OF BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS DEAN'S AWARD FOR MOST OUTSTANDING STUDENT is presented to an outstanding student who has displayed strong leadership, outstanding character, and scholarship and who is active in department and campus activities. THE OUTSTANDING ECONOMIC UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT AWARD is presented by the Department of Economics to a junior or senior economics student with the highest grade point average. A similar award is presented to the graduate student in economics.THE TENNESSEE SOCIETY OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AWARD , Memphis Chapter, is presented annually to the graduating student who has the highest overall scholastic average among all accountancy majors. THE MEMPHIS CHAPTER OF THE SOCIETY OF CHARTERED PROPERTY CASUALTY UNDERWRITERS annually awards a check and a plaque to the outstanding student in the field of insurance. SOCIETY FOR ADVANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT SCHOLARSHIP is annually awarded to that member of SAM who has served the society in an exemplary manner and demonstrated leadership in the field of management. DELTA SIGMA PI , international business fraternity, annually awards a scholarship key to the student in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics graduating with the highest academic average in business. THE UNION PLANTERS / U of M FOGELMAN COLLEGE ALUMNI CHAPTER SCHOLASTIC ACHIEVEMENT AWARDS areawarded each semester to three graduating seniors in recognition of their outstanding scholastic achievement in the college. Award includes a check and their names inscribed on a plaque. THE COLLEGE OF COMMUNICATION AND FINE ARTS DEAN'S ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT AWARD is available to a student majoring in a discipline within the College of Communication and Fine Arts. It recognizes the graduating student with the highest grade point average. DEAN'S CREATIVE ACHIEVEMENT AWARD is based on outstanding creative activity in the areas encompassed by the College of Communication and Fine Arts. CREATIVE ACHIEVEMENT IN ART is awarded annually by the department for outstanding creative achievement in art to a senior majoring in art. A cumulative QPA of at least 3.0 is required. "BEST OF SHOW AWARD," JURIED STUDENT EXHIBITION is awarded annually to the student whose work is judged "Best of Services to 12:03:09 PM]Show" in the Annual Juried Student Exhibition. THESIS AWARD IN ART HISTORY is presented in recognition of an outstanding masters thesis in art history. ART HISTORY GRADUATE AWARD is presented annually to a graduate student for outstanding initiative and research. ART HISTORY UNDERGRADUATE AWARD is presented annually to an undergraduate student for outstanding work in art history.INTERIOR DESIGN ALUMNI STUDENT DESIGN AWARDS at the sophomore, junior, and senior levels are given for the best design of a given project. SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL JOURNALISTS, Memphis Chapter, annually presents a certificate of achievement and a cash award to the student chosen as outstanding in the field of journalism. SOCIETY OF PROFESSIONAL JOURNALISTS, SIGMA DELTA CHI MARK OF EXCELLENCE AWARDS , Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, West Tennessee Region, annually presents first place awards for Best TV Broadcasting, Best Editorial Cartoon, Best Feature Article, and Best Photography Feature. SIGMA ALPHA IOTA COLLEGE HONOR AWARD is an award based on musicianship, scholarship, and general contribution to the collegiate chapter. SIGMA ALPHA IOTA HONOR CERTIFICATE is presented annually to the graduating senior of this chapter having attained the highest academic average. PAUL EAHEART MEMPHIS WOODWIND QUINTET SCHOLARSHIP is presented in honor of Paul Eaheart for excellence in wind performance. LUBRANI CLARINET AWARD , in memory of Professor Frederic Lubrani, is presented for performance ability, general scholarship, service to the Music Department, and potential in the profession. SMIT COMPOSITION AWARD is presented in memory of Professor Johannes Smit for excellence in composition. HEARST AWARDS are presented as the result of an annual national writing, broadcasting, and photography competition among accredited journalism programs for work appearing in student publications. Cash prizes range from $200 to $2,000 with matching awards going to sponsoring journalism departments. KATHY KRIEGER MEMORIAL AWARD is awarded to students majoring in communication with a concentration in broadcasting based on academic merit, involvement in programs, and involvement with Radio Station WUMR. HOHENBERG FOUNDATION, INC. AWARD is presented annually to a student pursuing a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree with a concentration in dance. The recipient must have at least a 2.50 QPA. ART CENTER SUPPLY AWARD is given annually to a sophomore, junior, or senior majoring in graphic design. Selection is based on portfolio and academic performance. MEMPHIS-GERMANTOWN ART LEAGUE AWARD is presented annually in the spring to an undergraduate art major who has demonstrated exceptional artistic abilities in any discipline within the Department of Art. UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE SUPPLY AWARD is given annually to an undergraduate art major. Selection is based on portfolio and academic performance. NARAS SCHOLARSHIP AWARD is given to outstanding commercial music majors by the National Office and Memphis Chapter of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. Recipients are selected by a committee composed of music professionals and commercial music faculty. THE LINN SITLER THEATRE AWARD is presented annually to an outstanding theatre student with a minimum QPA of 3.0. THE SAUL BROWN AWARD is given to a journalism major concentrating in news writing. Saul Brown retired from the Memphis Press-Scimitar in 1980 as the newspaper's chief photographer. Selection for the award is based on talent, skill, and a student's promise as a journalist as demonstrated by his or her articles and/or photographs. THE ALAN BUSSEL MEMORIAL AWARD is given to a senior journalism major with extraordinary service to African Americans who are pursuing careers in journalism. Applicants must have a minimum QPA of 3.0. Financial need is considered. THE KAPPA TAU ALPHA AWARD is given to the member of Kappa Tau Alpha journalism honor society who has achieved the highest academic average. Services to 12:03:09 PM]THE COLLEGE OF EDUCATION ELEANOR MAE FERGUSON AWARD is presented each year to the outstanding junior or senior woman physical education major who displays strong leadership, outstanding character, and high scholarship and who performs an active role in departmental and campus activities. RALPH HATLEY SR. AWARD is presented to the outstanding junior or senior male physical education major who displays strong leadership, outstanding character, and high scholarship and who performs an active role in departmental and campus activities. THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION OUTSTANDING SENIOR IN RECREATION AND PARKS AWARD is presented annually in recognition of meritorious scholarship, leadership and service to the university, the community and the profession. THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION OUTSTANDING GRADUATE STUDENT IN RECREATION AND PARKS AWARD is presented annually in recognition of meritorious scholarship, leadership and service to the university, the community and the profession. THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION HEALTH EDUCATION HONOR AWARD ispresented annually to the undergraduate health education major with the highest overall grade point average. THE DEPARTMENT OF INSTRUCTION AND CURRICULUM LEADERSHIP OUTSTANDING SENIOR AWARD is presented annually to an outstanding senior majoring in special education and rehabilitation who displays strong leadership, outstanding character, and scholarship and takes an active role in departmental and campus activities. THE KAPPA DELTA PI JUNIOR ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT AWARD is presented annually to the junior having the highest grade point average. THE KAPPA DELTA PI SENIOR ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT AWARD is presented annually to the senior having the highest grade point average. THE DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER SCIENCE AND EDUCATION OUTSTANDING SENIOR AWARD is presented each year to the graduating senior in the department with the highest academic average. THE MARQUITA L. IRLAND SCHOLARS AWARD is presented annually to a spring graduate with outstanding contributions in the areas of leadership, service to the community and the profession of home economics, and scholarship. THE MEMPHIS EDUCATION ASSOCIATION AWARD is presented each year to the graduating senior who, having graduated from the Memphis City Schools System and completed all college level work in a teacher education program at the university, has attained the highest grade point average of the students in this category. THE HEBER E. RUMBLE OUTSTANDING STUDENT TEACHER AWARD is presented each year to the student whose performance in student teaching is judged to be the most outstanding. THE DEPARTMENT OF INSTRUCTION AND CURRICULUM LEADERSHIP OUTSTANDING EARLY CHILDHOOD MAJOR AWARD is presented annually to the early childhood education major who has demonstrated outstanding scholarship, involvement in professional organizations, and professional potential. THE DEPARTMENT OF INSTRUCTION AND CURRICULUM LEADERSHIP OUTSTANDING ELEMENTARY EDUCATION MAJOR AWARD is presented annually to the elementary education major who has demonstrated outstanding scholarship, involvement in professional organizations, and professional potential. THE DEPARTMENT OF INSTRUCTION AND CURRICULUM LEADERSHIP OUTSTANDING MASTER'S DEGREE CANDIDATE AWARD is presented to the master's candidate who has demonstrated outstanding scholarship, involvement in professional organizations, and professional integrity. THE DEAN'S AWARD is presented annually on the basis of scholarship, professionalism, leadership, and service to the College of Education, the university, and/or professional organizations. THE HERFF COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING OUTSTANDING SENIOR AWARDS in the College of Engineering are presented to the outstanding senior in each of the four departments: civil engineering, electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, and engineering technology, based on scholarship. OUTSTANDING STUDENT MEMBER OF IEEE is presented an award by The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, student chapter. Services to 12:03:09 PM]ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY SOCIETY AWARD is presented annually to the outstanding student by the student chapter. ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS AWARD is presented annually by the student chapter for outstanding achievement. FRED H. KELLOGG AWARD is presented annually to the outstanding student in civil engineering. ASHRAE AWARD is presented annually to the outstanding junior in mechanical engineering. ENGINEERING DEAN'S AWARD is presented annually to the graduating student who has compiled the highest academic achievement in the college. ENGINEER-IN-TRAINING AWARD is presented to the student who achieves the highest score on the Fundamentals of Engineering examination, which is the first step in becoming a registered engineer. SCHOOL OF NURSING HIGHEST ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT AWARD is presented annually by The University of Memphis Nursing Alumni Association to the graduating senior in nursing who has the highest overall scholastic average. OUTSTANDING STUDENT AWARD is presented annually to the graduating senior in nursing who best demonstrates academic achievement, leadership and professionalism. UNIVERSITY COLLEGE DISTINGUISHED SPECIAL PROJECT AWARD is presented to each student whose special project has been judged outstanding by the Faculty Council of University College. ALUMNI ASSOCIATION AWARD is given each semester to the graduate who has received the highest grade point average in coordinated study. FACULTY COUNCIL AWARD is presented to the graduating senior, each commencement, who has earned the highest overall grade point average. DEAN'S AWARD FOR SPECIAL ACHIEVEMENT is given to honor University College graduates who have demonstrated academic achievement, leadership, professional and/or social commitment, and determination to complete a baccalaureate program. ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT AWARD is given to University College baccalaureate graduates who have demonstrated academic excellence and scholarly potential. BORNBLUM JUDAIC STUDIES AWARD is presented to students who have excelled in the study of Hebrew Language and/or Judaic Studies. OUTSTANDING PARALEGAL GRADUATE AWARDS are presented annually in cooperation with West Publishing Company to the two paralegal services graduates who best demonstrate achievement in academics and professionalism. THE LEGAL RESEARCH AWARD is given annually to the paralegal student demonstrating exceptional mastery of the principles of legal research and writing. OUTSTANDING OFF-CAMPUS STUDENT AWARDS are presented each year to the students (one undergraduate and one graduate) who, while taking courses away from the main campus, have demonstrated unusual commitment and scholarly endeavor in the pursuit of continuing their education. Consideration for the award may include grade point average, unusual family commitment, service to peers, ability to balance scholarly pursuit with work, family, and community service, and unusual service to U of M or Extended Programs. DEPARTMENT OF AEROSPACE STUDIES THE PRESIDENT'S AWARD is presented annually to the freshman or sophomore AFROTC cadet who has demonstrated outstanding attributes of leadership and high moral character. Selection is made by AFROTC, with final approval by the university president.ANGEL OF THE YEAR AWARD is presented to the member of Angel Flight who has given the most in service to the campus and the community. Services to 12:03:09 PM]ARNOLD OF THE YEAR AWARD is presented to the member of Arnold Air Society who has given the most in service to the campus and the community. DEPARTMENT OF MILITARY SCIENCE SOLDIER'S MEDAL is awarded to cadets who distinguish themselves by an act of heroism at advanced camp. ROTC MEDAL FOR HEROISM is awarded to cadets who distinguish themselves by an act of heroism performed on or off campus. THE PRESIDENT'S AWARD is presented annually to the U of M senior cadet who has demonstrated outstanding attributes of leadership and high moral character. Selection is made by the department chair with final approval by the university president. GEORGE C. MARSHALL ROTC AWARD is presented annually to the U of M senior cadet who has demonstrated outstanding leadership and scholastic qualities. HUGHES TROPHY AWARD is presented annually to the cadet who is recommended by the professor of military science and the dean as the most outstanding commissioned graduate based upon officer potential and academic leadership. PALLAS ATHENE AWARD is presented annually to the most outstanding graduating female cadet. NATIONAL DEFENSE TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION AWARD is presented annually to the most outstanding senior cadet who is recommended by the professor of military science and the dean as being in the top twenty five percent of the ROTC and academic class and who possesses an interest in the Transportation Corps. ARMED FORCES COMMUNICATIONS ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION HONOR AWARD is presented to a senior cadet majoring in math, chemistry, physics, engineering, or photography who is active on campus or academically distinguished and has demonstrated outstanding qualities of military leadership and high moral character. ALDEN PATRIDGE COMMEMORATIVE AWARD is presented to the top graduating science or engineering student in the Army ROTC program. DISTINGUISHED MILITARY STUDENT/GRADUATE AWARD is presented annually to senior cadets who are in the upper third of the ROTC class and upper half of the university class who are active on campus, are outstanding leaders, and possess an aptitude for military service. DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY SUPERIOR CADET DECORATION AWARD is presented annually to outstanding junior and senior cadets who have demonstrated academic leader qualities in scholastic and related activities and officer potential, and who are in the top twenty five percent of their ROTC and academic class. AMERICAN LEGION GENERAL MILITARY EXCELLENCE AWARD is presented annually to the outstanding cadet who has demonstrated qualities in military leadership, discipline, character, and citizenship, and is in the top twenty five percent of ROTC and academic class. AMERICAN LEGION SCHOLASTIC EXCELLENCE AWARD is presented annually to the outstanding junior and senior cadets who have demonstrated qualities in leadership and actively participated in student activities, and who are in the top twenty five percent of their ROTC class and the top ten percent of their academic class. SOCIETY OF AMERICAN MILITARY ENGINEERS AWARD is presented annually to the junior and senior cadets who are recommended by the professor of military science and the Dean as being in the top twenty five percent of the ROTC and academic class and the outstanding engineering students of the year. ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY AWARD is presented to the junior who contributes the most, through leadership, to advancing the standing of the Military Science Department while in the top twenty five percent of the ROTC class and top ten percent of the academic class. AMERICAN DEFENSE PREPAREDNESS AWARD is presented annually to the junior cadet who demonstrated outstanding leader qualities and participated actively in campus activities, placed in the top twenty percent of the platoon at Advanced Camp, received a B or above in all ROTC classes, and is in the upper half of the academic class. ARMED FORCES COMMUNICATIONS ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION SCHOLARSHIP AWARD is presented to Basic Course students accepted to the Advanced Course who are of high moral character, in the top twenty five percent of their academic class, and in need financial assistance in completing a degree in electrical engineering or technical photography. DAUGHTERS OF THE FOUNDERS AND PATRIOTS OF AMERICA AWARD is presented annually to a freshman or sophomore cadet who is in the top twenty five percent of the ROTC class and has demonstrated excellence in history, the potential for good leadership, and related accomplishments reflecting the ideals of patriotism. Services to 12:03:09 PM]DEPARTMENT OF NAVAL SCIENCE TRIDENT HONOR SOCIETY AWARD is presented to outstanding Naval midshipmen who have demonstrated the highest caliber of academic excellence. NROTC AWARDS PRESIDENT'S AWARD is presented annually by the university president to a graduating senior who demonstrates outstanding attributes of leadership and high moral character. NAVY LEAGUE OF MEMPHIS HONOR SWORD AWARD is presented to the Naval Graduate selected as the one Midshipman of the graduating class who has consistently demonstrated the highest leadership ability throughout the program. RESERVE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION is presented annually to the outstanding freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior who have demonstrated above average scholastic achievements, exceptional mastery of previous Naval Science courses, and superior potential for commissioned service. THE RETIRED OFFICERS ASSOCIATION AWARD is presented to the outstanding junior who has demonstrated above average scholastic achievement, high moral character, and exceptional potential for military leadership. AMERICAN DEFENSE PREPAREDNESS ASSOCIATION AWARD is presented annually to an outstanding senior whose scholastic achievements are in the top half of the class and in the top one-fifth of NROTC enrollment at the university, who has shown active participation in athletics or campus activities and demonstrated outstanding leadership qualities. SOCIETY OF THE WAR OF 1812 AWARD is presented annually to an outstanding sophomore whose scholastic average is within the upper quarter of the class, and who demonstrates the ideals of Americanism. SONS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION MEDAL is presented annually to an outstanding freshman who has demonstrated leadership, military bearing and all around excellence in NROTC program studies and activities. NATIONAL SOJOURNERS AWARD FOR AMERICANISM is presented annually to a sophomore or junior who has demonstrated the ideals of Americanism, outstanding scholastic achievements and the potential to be an outstanding leader. AMERICAN LEGION ROTC GENERAL MILITARY EXCELLENCE AWARD is presented annually to one freshman, sophomore, and junior, each of whose scholastic achievements are in the top quarter of the class and who have demonstrated outstanding qualities in military leadership, discipline, character and citizenship. AMERICAN LEGION ROTC SCHOLASTIC EXCELLENCE AWARD is presented annually to a freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior, each of whose scholastic achievements are in the upper ten percent of the university and who have demonstrated high qualities of military leadership. MILITARY ORDER OF THE WORLD WARS MEDAL is presented to a freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior who each have demonstrated marked improvement in military scholastic achievements. VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS AWARD is presented annually to a freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior who each have demonstrated achievement and concentrated effort in Naval Science and academic subjects and demonstrated capability and diligence in the Naval ROTC program. DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION AWARD is presented annually to a graduating senior whose scholastic achievements are in the top quarter of the class and who has demonstrated qualities of dependability, good character, adherence to military discipline, leadership ability and a fundamental and patriotic understanding of the importance of the ROTC program. DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION CERTIFICATE is presented annually to a junior who best exemplifies the qualities of dependability, good character, adherence to military discipline, leadership ability and a fundamental and patriotic understanding of the importance of the ROTC program. DAUGHTERS OF FOUNDERS AND PATRIOTS OF AMERICA AWARD is presented annually to an outstanding sophomore or freshman who demonstrates qualities of dependability, good character, discipline, leadership, and patriotism. MILITARY ORDER OF FOREIGN WARS MEDAL is presented annually to an outstanding freshman, sophomore, and junior who each have demonstrated discipline, good character, and leadership ability. AMERICAN VETERANS OF WORLD WAR II, KOREA, AND VIETNAM MEDAL is presented annually to an outstanding freshman with superior standing in military and academic subjects. Services to 12:03:09 PM]NAVAL INSTITUTE LEADERSHIP AWARD is presented annually to a graduating College Program student, Officer Candidate, and Marine Enlisted Commissioning and Education Program student who each have demonstrated outstanding potential for Naval leadership.GENERAL DYNAMICS AWARD is presented annually to a Midshipman, Officer Candidate, and Marine Enlisted Commissioning and Education Program student who each have demonstrated outstanding leadership ability. ARMED FORCES COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC ASSOCIATION AWARD is presented to Midshipmen of good moral character, who are in the top fourth of their class, working toward a degree in electronics, communications, electrical engineering, mathematics, computer technology or intelligence systems, and who need financial assistance. ARMED FORCES COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC ASSOCIATION HONOR CERTIFICATE is presented annually to a junior who has demonstrated high achievement in leadership and in academics and is academically strong in electronics, communications, electrical engineering, mathematics, computer technology or intelligence systems. NAVAL SUBMARINE LEAGUE AWARD is presented annually to the graduating senior who has demonstrated superior leadership ability and academic aptitude for entry into the Submarine Warfare Community. MARINE CORPS ASSOCIATION AWARD is presented annually to the graduating Marine-option Midshipman or Marine who best exemplifies the leadership qualities and professionalism of a Marine officer. MARINER OF THE YEAR is presented annually by the Naval Science Department to a member of the Mariners who has given most in service to the department, university, and community. SPECIAL AWARDS MARIA LEONARD SCHOLARSHIP AWARD is presented annually by Alpha Lambda Delta, national scholastic honor society, to the senior member of the society with the highest academic average. GOLDEN KEY NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY presents annually two scholarships to junior and senior members of the local chapter who have excelled in scholarship, leadership and participation in activities. PHI KAPPA PHI SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS are presented annually to two undergraduate and one graduate member who demonstrate high scholastic ability and excellent leadership, who provide meaningful service to the university, and who will continue their studies at the university. THE DAVID A. COLLINS--OMICRON DELTA KAPPA LEADERSHIP SCHOLARSHIP AWARD is presented to a member of the U of M Circle who will continue studies at the graduate level, who has shown responsible and effective leadership, who has made significant contributions to the student body, and who inspires and encourages others to use their leadership talents for the benefit of their peers. THE HONORS PROGRAM DIRECTOR'S AWARD is presented to an honors student for outstanding academic performance in an honors curriculum. THE JIMMY CARTER PRESIDENTIAL AWARD FOR VOLUNTEERISM is presented to that student who best exemplifies the spirit of volunteerism and action that helps alleviate human need. THE JOSEPH R. RILEY STUDENT SERVICE AWARD is presented for outstanding service to the Honors Program and the Honors Student Association. THE SAMUEL T. BOSWELL STUDENT LEADERSHIP AWARD is presented in recognition of outstanding leadership in campus issues and activities, example set for peers, and the display of personal and political courage, and/or community involvement. ROSETTA I. MILLER AWARD is presented to the outstanding woman student who has returned to college despite significant hardships. GREEK ALL-SING FOLLIES SCHOLARS MERIT AWARDS: Scholarships of $250.00 each are awarded annually by the Interfraternity Council to the pledge/associate from the previous fall or spring semester who attained the highest grade point average, and to the fraternity member with the highest grade point average over the past two consecutive semesters. THE WOMEN'S PANHELLENIC COUNCIL annually awards one $250.00 scholarship to the sorority member who has attained the highest scholastic average. In addition, a Pledge Scholarship in the amount of $250.00 is awarded to the fall semester pledge who attained the highest average for the semester. TWO PANHELLENIC COUNCIL scholarships are awarded each spring to the PHC fraternity man and sorority woman who have Services to 12:03:09 PM]obtained the highest cumulative grade point average for the previous year. Awards are in the amount of $250.00 each. WOMEN'S INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS SCHOLAR AWARD is presented annually to the woman athlete who has maintained the highest grade point average while at the university. THE ELMA ROANE OUTSTANDNG WOMAN ATHLETE AWARD is presented to the junior or senior woman athlete who best exemplifies the following qualities: drive, enthusiasm, determination, concern for others, love for athletics, maturity, involvement in campus activities, and self discipline in all aspects of life. CAMPUS RECREATION AND INTRAMURALS AWARDS are presented annually to the intramural Greek, intramural Independent Resident, Panhellenic Manager of the Year, and Outstanding Official of the Year who show leadership and interest in the intramural program. 12:03:11 PM]EXPENSESFEES AND CHARGES APPLICATION & REGISTRATION FEE INFORMATION MISCELLANEOUS FEES STUDENT HOUSING APPEAL PROCEDURES UNIVERSITY FEES AND CHARGES GENERAL: All university fees and charges are calculated and assessed consistent with policies and procedures of the Tennessee Board of Regents and The University of Memphis. Information in this catalog is intended to cover the situations that most students will encounter. However, the university may have additional policies and procedures by which fees and charges are implemented or that apply to unusual situations.As a result of publication deadline requirements, the fee amounts indicated in this edition of the catalog are for the 1994-95 academic year. Because of rapidly changing conditions, it may become necessary to alter a fee structure before the next edition of the catalog is published. REGISTRATION (ENROLLMENT) FEES The information in this section concerning registration fees is applicable only to students enrolled in the undergraduate colleges and departments of the university. Similar information for students in The Graduate School and The School of Law is available in the catalogs of those schools. FEE SCHEDULE: RESIDENT (IN-STATE) Hours Maintenance + Activity= Total 1 86 + 4 = 90 2 172 + 8 = 180 3 258 + 12 = 270 4 344 + 16 = 360 5 430 + 20 = 450 6 543 + 34 = 577 7 621 + 34 = 655 8 699 + 34 = 733 9 777 + 34 = 811 10 855 + 34 = 889 11 933 + 34 = 967 12 987 + 34 = 1,021 NON-RESIDENT (OUT-OF-STATE) Hours Maintenance + Out-Of-State + Activity=Total 1 86 + 172 + 4 =262 2 172 + 344 + 8 =524 3 258 + 516 + 12 =786 4 344 + 688 + 16 =1,048 5 430 + 860 + 20 =1,310 6 543 + 1,032 + 34 =1,609 7 621 + 1,204 + 34 =1,859 8 699 + 1,376 + 34 =2,109 9 777 + 1,548 + 34 =2,359 10 855 + 1,720 + 34 =2,609 11 933 + 1,892 + 34 =2,859 12 987 + 1,967 + 34 =2,988 THE SUMMER SESSION: The summer session consists of two separate terms of approximately six weeks each, plus an extended term for specified courses. Enrollment fees for the summer sessions are determined solely on a semester hour basis. The 1994-95 semester hour charges are $86.00 for maintenance fees, $4.00 for student activity fees, and an additional $172.00 for out-of-state tuition. 12:03:11 PM]MAINTENANCE FEES: Maintenance fees are assessed based on the course level and the number of hours enrolled. The maximum fees will be the graduate maximum ($1,199) during 1994-95 academic year) if a student is enrolled for any graduate level courses. Maintenance fee amounts quoted in the fee schedule above include the Debt Service and General Access Fee components. TUITION: Students classified as out-of-state residents by the Office of Admissions, using regulations provided by the Tennessee Board of Regents, pay the additional out-of-state tuition as indicated in the Fee Schedule above. Residency regulations of the TBR and information on appeals procedures are available in the Office of Admissions. RESIDENCY CLASSIFICATIONS MAY BE CHANGED ONLY BY THE OFFICE OF ADMISSIONS.STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE: All students enrolled for one to five credit hours pay a part-time student activity fee of $4.00 per credit hour. All students enrolled for six or more credit hours pay a full-time student activity fee of $34.00. Students paying the full-time fee are entitled to admission to home athletic events, and certain health services, concerts, plays, and other student-sponsored activities and social events.APPLIED MUSIC FEE: Certain music courses require an additional applied music fee of $35.00 per semester for each weekly one-half hour lesson. This fee is not included in the Fee Schedule above. NURSING CLINICAL PRACTICUM FEE: Certain nursing courses require an additional clinical practicum fee of $40.00-50.00 per semester. This fee is not included in the Fee Schedule above. LATE REGISTRATION FEE: A late registration fee of $10.00, which is not included in the Fee Schedule above, will be assessed to each student who does not complete registration, including the payment of fees, by the semester's first day of classes. PAYMENT OF FEES AND DEBTS: Registration (enrollment) fees may be paid by cash, check, money order, Visa/Mastercard/Discover, Financial Aid Authorization, or University TIGER FUND$ account. Fees may be paid as soon as the student receives a registration Bill and Schedule Form. However, all registration fees and outstanding debts to the university must be paid by the semester's fee payment deadline date. All fee payment deadlines are noted in the When to Pay (Fee Payment Deadlines) section of the term's Schedule of Classes. Registration is not complete and students will not have their names placed on class rolls until after all fees are satisfied. It is expected that a check or draft given to the university, for any reason, will be honored by the bank on which it is drawn. A check or draft dishonored by the bank on which it is drawn may be presented a second time at the discretion of the university. A $15.00 returned item fee will be assessed for any checks/drafts returned.The privilege of making payments to the university by personal check and check cashing privileges will be revoked for any student who has had more than one returned check/draft within a twelve month period. The suspension of this privilege will be for a period of one year from the date the last item is redeemed. A student will not be permitted to satisfy registration fees by check if any previous check in payment of registration fees has been returned. Students on a "NO CHECKS" status must be prepared to satisfy registration fees with cash, cashier's check, or by authorized credit card draft. INDEBTEDNESS TO UNIVERSITY: Policy of the Tennessee Board of Regents prohibits the enrollment of any person who owes the university any amount of money. All outstanding financial obligations to the university must be satisfied before the first day of classes to avoid deletion of the student from the university. Tennessee law prohibits the release of grades, transcripts or diplomas of any person having outstanding financial obligations to the university. REFUND OF REGISTRATION (ENROLLMENT) FEES: The following refund percentages of enrollment fees (Maintenance, Out-Of-State Tuition, Applied Music, Nursing Clinical Practicum, and Student Activity Fees) apply to students who withdraw from the university or who drop to an hourly load below full time: 12:03:11 PM]A. 100% Refund: (1) A full (100%) refund of these fees will be provided until the semester's first day of classes, (2) for courses cancelled by the university, and (3) in the case of the death of the student. B. 75% Refund: A 75% refund will be provided beginning with the semester's first day of classes and extending for a period of time as noted in the term calendar of the Schedule of Classes for each semester. A 90% refund of the Student Activity Fee will be provided during this period. C. 25% Refund: A 25% refund will be provided beginning at the expiration of the 75% refund period and extending for a period of time as noted in the term calendar of the Schedule of Classes each semester. A 75% refund of the Student Activity Fee will be provided during this period. D. At the conclusion of the 25% refund period, there will be no refund of these fees. OTHER REGISTRATION (ENROLLMENT) FEE INFORMATION RESIDENCY CLASSIFICATION: All determinations concerning the classification of students as in state or out of state for fee purposes are made in the Office of Admissions. The determinations are based on the regulations and guidelines of the Tennessee Board of Regents. If, for any reason, there is a question about a student's residency classification for fee payment purposes, the student is responsible for requesting a review of their residency status before classes begin. ACADEMIC COMMON MARKET: Participation in the Academic Common Market allows qualified students from southern states to pay in-state tuition while pursuing certain degree programs at The University of Memphis. This arrangement is available only for students whose home states do not offer the designated program. The state in which the student resides determines which of the programs offered by The University of Memphis the home state will make available to its students. The participating states are Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia (Florida and Texas grant access for graduate level programs only). Students may request through their home state coordinators that additional programs be made accessible. A list of the state coordinators with their addresses and telephone numbers may be obtained from the Office of Curriculum Planning. In addition to certification requirements which the student's state of residence may specify, the following pertain: (1) Students must be fully admitted to a degree program that has been approved as an Academic Common Market program (non-degree students are ineligible); (2) students must obtain a letter certifying residency and approval for the particular University of Memphis program from their state's Academic Common Market coordinator. FEES FOR TOTALLY DISABLED PERSONS AND PERSONS OVER 60 YEARS OF AGE: Persons who are domiciled in Tennessee and (1) have a permanent disability that totally incapacitates them from the potential to work at an occupation that brings them an income, or (2) who will become 60 years of age or older during the academic semester in which they begin classes, may AUDIT courses at The University of Memphis without paying tuition charges, maintenance fees, student activity fees, access fees, or registration fees. Admission to AUDIT will be limited on an individual classroom basis according to space availability. Those who are totally disabled and those who will become 65 years of age or older during the academic semester in which they begin classes, and who are domiciled in Tennessee, may enroll for courses for credit at the cost of $43.00 per undergraduate semester hour, or $59.00 per graduate semester hour, not to exceed $75.00 per semester. University Health Services shall examine certification of permanent disability (not the applicant) and determine the eligibility of the applicant under this legislation. Inquiries concerning these programs may be addressed to the Registration and Scheduling Office, Room 167, Administration Building. 12:03:11 PM]MISCELLANEOUS FEES APPLICATION FEE: Students submitting an application for admission to the university must pay, at the time of submitting their first application, a one-time, non-refundable fee of $5.00. COMMERCIAL MUSIC FEES: Students who wish to apply for credit for experiential learning in Commercial Music may obtain guidelines for this procedure from the Dean of the College of Communication and Fine Arts. A non-refundable $25.00 contract advising fee will be charged for the assessment of the portfolio. See "Experiential Learning Credit Fees" for related fee information. CREDIT BY EXAMINATION OR PLACEMENT EXAMINATION: The fee for taking an examination for credit or a placement examination is $60.00 minimum and an additional $15.00 for each hour in excess of three (3) per course. These fees are non-refundable and must be paid prior to the examination. DESOTO: Students at The University of Memphis may elect to purchase the university's award-winning yearbook, The Desoto, for a fee of $25.00. EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING CREDIT FEES: Students who apply for credit for experiential learning will pay a fee of $30.00 per credit hour for which credit is awarded. For students enrolled under a group contract, a maximum fee of $180.00 will be assessed for credits assigned under the terms of the contract. Currently the University College and the College of Communication and Fine Arts award credit for experiential learning. See "University College Fees" and "Commercial Music Fees" for related fee information.LABORATORY DEPOSITS: Certain courses in chemistry require breakage deposits of from $10.00 to $20.00 per semester, depending upon the course. Any unused portion of these deposits will be refunded. MEALS: The university cafeterias, student centers and vending areas, open to all students, provide wholesome food at reasonable prices. The cost of meals per student is estimated to be $1,950 per academic year. MUSIC LOCKER DEPOSIT: Music students are required to have a locker for storage of university-owned musical instruments or equipment. Personal instruments may also be stored in the locker. A deposit of $10.00 per semester is required on each locker issued. This deposit, less a service charge of $5.00 per semester, will be refunded upon return of the lock. Students will be expected to pay for any damages. PHYSICAL EDUCATION LOCKER AND TOWEL FEE: Students enrolled in physical education courses must pay a fee of $4.00 for the locker and towel issued them. Students must provide their own lock. TRANSCRIPTS: There is no fee for transcripts. Transcripts are issued only at the request of the student in person or by letter. No transcript will be issued for a student who has any unfulfilled obligations to the university.UNIVERSITY COLLEGE FEES: In addition to the $5.00 application fee, students who apply to the University College must pay a non-refundable $15.00 screening fee. The student also must pay a non- refundable $25.00 contract advising fee if accepted into the University College. VARIOUS COURSE FEES: Certain course offerings require various fees to obtain the necessary course- related supplies. (Examples of such may be found in art, engineering technology, biology, etc., courses.) Any student already possessing the supply items required for completion of the course will be exempt from these fees. WALL LOCKERS: University rental lockers are located in the following buildings: University Center (first floor), Engineering (first floor), Jones Hall (basement and third floors) and Graphic Arts (first floor). There is a $3.00 deposit required for one semester or $4.00 for fall and spring semesters combined. Wall locker fees are paid at the Bursar's Office (Administration 177). Wall lockers are assigned in Room 208 of the University 12:03:11 PM]Center after wall locker fees have been paid. APPEAL PROCEDURES APPEAL PROCEDURES FOR FEES AND REFUNDS: A student may appeal the assessment, application, calculation or interpretation of any university fee, charge, deposit, or refund, or any university action connected with fees and charges. Questions generally should be discussed with personnel in the Bursar's Office. If a student is not satisfied with the resolution made by the Bursar's Office, a written appeal, on forms available in the Bursar's Office, can be made to the Assistant to the Director of Finance; this determination may then be appealed to the university's Fee/Refund Appeals Committee. The listing of any fee or incidental charge in this publication does not constitute a contract between the university and the student. As a condition of registration, each student will pay the fees in effect for the semester for which he or she registers. All questions in regard to fees, fee payment, refunds, and appeals should be directed to the Bursar's Office, Room 176 Administration Building. Fees are subject to change without notice. The university will usually collect the amount of fees due at the time of registration and during the adding and dropping of classes in accordance with the residency classification and fee rates in effect. After all enrollments are complete, any over-collections will be refunded and students will be billed for any under-collections. Fees for AUDITING courses are assessed on the same basis as fees for credit courses. Courses offered between terms, for concentrated periods during a term, or at specific locations may be subject to fees on a per-hour basis only. UNIVERSITY ID CARDS The University of Memphis issues each student an identification card that bears the student's image and social security number. All students should obtain this permanent identification card that is used as the primary campus-wide method of determining privileges and accesses permitted each student. The ID card is required for the borrowing of library books, admission to or approval to pick up or purchase student tickets to athletic and social events, the sale of used text books, and other official purposes. There is no charge to the student for the initial university ID card and it is automatically validated each semester the student enrolls and satisfies registration fees. The card remains the property of The University of Memphis and should be surrendered upon the request of any university official. Each student may possess only ONE university ID card at any time. Students may obtain a replacement for a lost, stolen, or damaged university ID card from the ID Card Office in Room 176 of the Administration Building, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Students will be charged a $10.00 fee to replace a card that has been lost or stolen. A charge of $2.00 will be made to change any data on an ID card. TIGER FUND$ A personal TIGER FUND$ account, which is accessed through the university ID card, is available to all students at The University of Memphis. TIGER FUND$ is a declining balance money management program that provides students with a convenient way to obtain supplies and services on campus without the need to carry cash or the inconvenience of paying by check or credit card. TIGER FUND$ is accepted at numerous campus locations including the University Store, Health Center, Ticket Office, and campus food service locations. TIGER FUND$ is even accepted at various vending machines on campus for added convenience. 12:03:11 PM]Additional information on the advantages and convenience of having a personal TIGER FUND$ accountmay be obtained from the ID Card Office in Room 176 of the Administration Building. STUDENT HOUSING RESIDENCE HALLS: Charges for rooms in university residence halls are indicated below. APPLICATION PROCEDURES: Receipt by the Office of Residence Life of the housing application and $100.00 check or money order, however, does not guarantee admission to the university or to a residence hall. THE DIRECTOR OF RESIDENCE LIFE RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REFUSE ANY HOUSING APPLICATION, TO CHANGE OR CANCEL ANY ASSIGNMENT, OR TO TERMINATE A RESIDENT'S OCCUPANCY, FOR JUSTIFIABLE CAUSE. CONTRACT PERIOD AND CONDITIONS: Fall assignments/contracts are for the full academic year (fall and spring semesters). Fall residents wishing to petition for release from their contract for the spring semester must do so in writing by November 1. Residents who cancel after this date, but before claiming their key for the spring semester, will forfeit 50% of their application/reservation deposit. Residents who fail to cancel by the completion of check-in will forfeit the entire deposit. The application/reservation deposit, once submitted with the application, covers the student's initial term of occupancy and all subsequent terms of occupancy and continues until such time as it is cancelled in writing. There will be no penalty if written cancellation is received before the published deadline for any specific contract period. Residents claim and vacate their rooms according to directions issued by the Department of Residence Life. Returning and new residents will have claimed their spaces if any or all of the following procedures have occurred: (1) receiving the room key during the check-in period, (2) paying residence hall rent in full or in part by the last day of regular check-in, (3) returning the signed contract with the rent payment. CANCELLATION POLICY: Full application/reservation deposit and pre-payment of rent will be refunded if: (1) the institution is notified in writing by the following cancellation deadlines for the first semester in which the contract is in force: July 1-fall residents; December 1-new spring residents; May 1-summer residents; (2) the student is prevented from entering the university because of personal medical reasons confirmed in writing by a licensed physician, (3) residence hall space is not available, (4) the applicant has not been assigned to a room at the time the applicant's written cancellation is received by Residence Life, or (5) the student is denied admittance or readmittance to the university. Full refund will be made in the case of death. Fall residents wishing to petition for release from their contract for the spring semester must do so in writing by November 1. NO REFUNDS WILL BE MADE FOR OTHER THAN THE ABOVE CONDITIONS. Assigned residents who fail to cancel by the deadline referred to in (1) above but cancel by completion of check-in will forfeit 50% of their deposit. Assigned residents who fail to cancel by completion of check-in will forfeit their entire deposit. (This is applicable to both the fall and spring semesters.) REFUND OF RESIDENCE HALL RENT: Refunds of residence hall rent after registration will be pro-rated on a weekly calendar basis when the student is forced to withdraw from the residence halls (1) because of personal medical reasons confirmed in writing by a licensed physician; or (2) at the request of the institution for other than disciplinary reasons. Full refund will be made in the case of death. For reasons other than the above stated, the following procedure shall apply: 75% of rent will be refunded for withdrawal from the residence halls for a period of approximately 14 calendar days beginning with and inclusive of the first official day of classes or within an equivalent period for a short-term course; 25% of rent will be refunded following expiration of the 75% period, for a period of time extending approximately 25% of the time covered by the term. The periods during which refunds of 75% or 25% will be made are exactly the same as the periods during which the same refund percentages are made for maintenance fees. NO REFUNDS WILL BE MADE FOR OTHER THAN THE ABOVE CONDITIONS. Type Semester Dormitory Room Rate*** 12:03:11 PM]Browning Double $770.00 Single 1,090.00 Hayden Double 965.00 Single 1,365.00 McCord Double 770.00 Single 1,090.00 Mynders Double* 740.00 Small Single* 995.00 Middle Single* 1,035.00 Large Single* 1,065.00 Large Single** 1,090.00 Rawls Double 795.00 Single 1,135.00 Richardson Towers N Double* 850.00 Single* 1,215.00 Richardson Towers S Double* 850.00 Single* 1,215.00 Robison Double 795.00 Single 1,135.00 Smith Double 795.00 Single 1,135.00 West Double 795.00 Single 1,135.00 Student Housing Complex Apartment 1,390.00 Townhouse 1,435.00 *Semi-Private Bath **Private Bath ***Fees quoted are for 1994-95 Academic Year and are subject to change. STUDENT FAMILY HOUSING: Student Family Housing is located on the South Campus approximately one mile from the main campus. Phase One consists of 56 one-bedroom townhouse apartments, 62 two- bedroom townhouse apartments, and 8 two-bedroom flats. All apartments are equipped with stove, refrigerator, garbage disposal, living room carpet, and venetian blinds. Electric central heat and air are also provided. An enclosed private patio is located to the rear of each apartment. The new Phase Two consists of 24 two-bedroom flats. These apartments are equipped with stove, frost-free refrigerator, garbage disposal, dishwasher, venetian blinds, thermal pane windows, hook-ups for stackable washers and dryers, and carpet in the living room and bedrooms. Gas central heat and air are also provided. Each apartment has a patio/balcony with a locking storage area. Four apartments are specifically designed for physically disabled students. Application forms may be obtained from the Office of Residence Life. A $100.00 deposit is required when the application is submitted. Academic 12:03:12 PM]ACADEMIC REGULATIONS APPEALSCLASS ATTENDANCE CLASSIFICATION OF STUDENTS SCHOLASTIC STANDARDS ADDITIONAL MEANS OF EARNING CREDIT APPEALSStudents have the right to appeal decisions made by university officials in the implementation of university policy. If a student feels that individual circumstances warrant an appeal, the request for appeal must be filed in the university office responsible for the implementation of that policy or the office specified in the policy statement. CLASS ATTENDANCE Class attendance may be used in computing grades at the discretion of the instructor. If attendance is to be used, a complete written statement of the instructor's policy detailing the weight of attendance in determining the final grade must be presented to all students present at the first and second meetings of the class. A student who is absent from the final examination without the permission of the teacher incurs a grade of F on the examination and may, depending on the weight of the examination in determining the final grade, incur a grade of F for the course. Adding and Dropping Courses After the official registration period is over, students may make adjustments in their schedules through the process of adding and/or dropping courses. (For dates and times, see the Schedule of Classes.) Courses dropped through the last day of the Late Registration period will not be shown on the student's permanent record. Courses dropped after the Late Registration period will be indicated on the record as withdrawal grades for those courses. A student may drop any course or courses up through the date specified in the University Calendar for that term. (The University Calendar is located in the front of this Catalog.) Exceptions are made only by the dean in the college in which the student is earning a degree, or by the dean's designee, and only on the basis of such unusual circumstances as serious personal illness and relocation because of employment. To stop attending a class without officially dropping the course incurs the grade of F. Withdrawal From University Any student who wishes to officially withdraw from the university must do so in person through the Office of the Registrar in Student Information Services (Administration Building, Room 119). Students must complete an application for withdrawal. Failure to officially withdraw will result in grades of F for the courses in which the student is enrolled. NOTE: From the beginning of registration for any term through the last date for late registration for that term, students withdraw in the Registration Center. See the Schedule of Classes for specific dates. Withdrawal is not permitted except on the dates specified in the University Calendar for that term. Exceptions are made to this policy only in cases of such extreme circumstances as serious personal illness and relocation because of employment. Withdrawal requests after the deadline should be filed in the dean's office of the student's major college or the Academic Counseling Unit for students with no declared major. Enrollment Transactions Academic 12:03:12 PM]Enrollment transactions include registration, adding and dropping courses, and withdrawing from the university. The official date shall be the date that the request is submitted to the Office of the Registrar, subject to the final review and approval of the Assistant Vice Provost for Enrollment Services. If the final review reveals any apparent violation of the university's academic regulations and/or contractual relationships between the university and the student, the Assistant Vice Provost for Enrollment Services has the authority to suspend the transaction pending joint review with the college dean, the department chair, and the student's academic advisor. If the joint review verifies the legitimacy of the transaction, the official date will be that originally established. If the joint review culminates in a finding that academic regulations and/or contractual relationships have been violated, the entire transaction may be permanently invalidated. CLASSIFICATION OF STUDENTS Classification of students is based on the number of college level credit hours earned as shown in the following table. Classification Semester Hours Freshman 0-24 Sophomore 25-54 Junior 55-84 Senior 85 or more Special Students not working on a degree In order to avoid a possible delay in graduation, students who have completed the required number of hours to be classified as juniors but who have not completed their basic requirements in the Lower Division should schedule these uncompleted requirements during the first semester following in which such courses are available. Credit Hours and Maximum Load The unit of credit at The University of Memphis is the semester hour; a semester hour is defined as the credit earned for the successful completion of one hour per week in class for one semester; or two hours per week of laboratory for one semester. (A course which gives three semester hours credit will normally meet for three lecture or recitation hours per week, or for two lecture or recitation hours and two laboratory hours per week; or for some other combination of these.) Each lecture hour presupposes a minimum of two hours preparation on the part of the student. The minimum credit hour load for classification as a full-time student and the maximum loads are found in the table below. The maximum credit hour load includes all course enrollments for any term, both at The University of Memphis and any concurrent enrollment at other institutions. It does not include credit by examination. No student is permitted to enroll for correspondence or extension courses while carrying a maximum credit hour load. ACADEMIC FULL-TIME CLASSIFICATION AND MAXIMUM LOAD Minimum Maximum Term Hours Hours Fall or Spring 2 **18 First or Second Summer * 8 Extended Summer only * 16 Extended and First or Second * 11 Extended and First and Second * 16 *Any enrollment of less than 12 hours for all summer terms combined is defined as being less than full-time. The minimum hours of enrollment required for full-time classifications is 12 hours for any combination of Extended, First and Second Summer Terms. **This maximum hour total includes neither the Applied Music Workshop (MUAP 1000) nor the courses approved by the university to meet the physical activity course degree requirement. (See Graduation from the University for listing of approved courses.) A student who has a B (3.0) average or better for a semester may schedule, with the permission of the dean of the college from Academic 12:03:12 PM]which the student is seeking a degree, a maximum of twenty-one hours for the following semester. Any or all of the above requirements may be waived at the discretion of the college dean or the dean's designee. NOTE: ID card validation of full-time for student activity purposes is based on a minimum of six credit hours per semester and does not necessarily constitute a full-time academic load. The maximum course load for any combination of concurrent summer terms is eleven semester hours. The student's course load for the entire summer session may not exceed 16 semester hours. (This may differ from requirements for the Veterans Administration. Questions should be directed to the Office of the Registrar.) SCHOLASTIC STANDARDS Grades and Quality Points GRADESAt the end of each semester or summer term, instructors report to the Office of the Registrar the standing of all students in their classes. The grade of a student in any course is determined by class standing and examination, combined in such proportion as the instructor in charge of the course may decide. Class standing in any course is determined by the quality of the student's work and the thoroughness of preparation. The instructor's evaluation of the student's work is expressed by the following grades which are converted to quality points for the purpose of averaging grades. Quality Quality Grade Points Grade Points A, Excellent 4 T (See below) 0 B, Good 3 CR, Credit 0 C, Satisfactory 2 W, Withdrew 0 D, Poor 1 AD, Audit 0 F, Failure 0 *S, Satisfactory 0 I, Incomplete 0 *U, Unsatisfactory 0 *The S/U grade is limited to certain types of courses such as practicums, practice teaching, etc. The IP (In Progress) notation may also be used in certain research courses to allow students time to complete research projects. These grades are only awarded for those undergraduate courses for which it is indicated in the course descriptions. All courses for which the student is registered are recorded as passed (with a letter grade), "T," failed, dropped, withdrew, audit, credit, satisfactory, unsatisfactory, or incomplete. In no case is credit allowed in any course for which the student is not duly registered and which is not properly entered on the official registration materials. Grade of Incomplete The grade of I (incomplete) indicates that the student has not completed the course for some unavoidable reason that is acceptable to the instructor. Unless the student completes the requirements for removal of "I" within forty-five days from the end of the semester or summer session in which it was received, the grade of "I" will be changed to an F, regardless of whether the student is enrolled or not. Extensions may be granted if the instructor's temporary absence from the campus makes it impossible for the student to remove the incomplete or in other circumstances acceptable to the instructor. Grades of incomplete earned during the student's semester of proposed graduation will delay the student's graduation until the end of the semester during which the incomplete is removed. All grades, with the exception of "I," when reported, can be changed only by the instructor who reported them and then only after approval by the Admissions and Records Committee. A grade other than "I" or "IP" may not be changed as a result of additional work performed by the student after a grade has been submitted to the Office of the Registrar. There is a Grade Appeals procedure described below. "T" Grade The "T" grade allows students to complete independent studies courses in variable time periods that might exceed a regular enrollment period. The following procedure governs the use of the "T" grade: Academic 12:03:12 PM]1. Prior to the registration period, the professor obtains approval of the chair and dean to use the "T" grade in a course(s). 2. The dean notifies the Office of the Registrar of courses for which the "T" grade may be awarded. 3. At the end of the regular term, the faculty member has the following options: a. Award grades A-F. b. Award an "I" grade if the faculty member feels that the work can be completed in 45 days. (If an "I" grade is awarded, a runner with the student's name on it will be sent to the faculty member during the 45-day period. The faculty member must record either an A-F or the "T" grade to prevent an automatic assignment of "F.") c. Award a "T" grade. If the "T" grade is awarded, the student must re-register for the course in order to earn credit. The "T" grade is not used in the computation of QPA. Repetition of Courses A student may repeat most courses in an attempt to improve the grade previously earned. There are some courses that may not be repeated for this purpose. Information concerning these courses may be obtained from the office of the chair of the department in which the course is offered. The university is not obligated to allow substitutes for repetition of courses which have been deleted from the curriculum. Credit by examination may not be used for the purpose of improving a grade previously earned in a course taken for credit. A student may not attempt the same course more than three times for the purpose of obtaining a passing grade or higher grade. Exceptions to this limitation may be made by the dean of the college from which the student intends to graduate, or by the dean's designee. These exceptions must be approved prior to the student's registration for the fourth and any subsequent attempts of the same course. The student's quality point average will be computed as follows: Grade(s) Included Attempt In Computation 1st Original grade earned 2nd Only grade in 2nd attempt 3rd and Grades earned in 2nd subsequent and all subsequent attempts calculated in quality point average.The record will continue to reflect all grades earned in the same course. Audit Courses Students who are registered for one or more classes at The University of Memphis may also register to audit a course with the approval of the chair of the department in which the course will be offered. Auditors are not required to prepare lessons or papers, or take examinations. They are not to take part in class discussions or laboratory or field work. Students auditing a course will receive "audit" on the transcript only if in the judgment of the instructor they have attended a sufficient number of classes to deserve the notation on the transcript. Faculty will base their decisions for awarding "audit" only on attendance, since the student is not allowed by policy to participate in any other way. Persons who are not enrolled for credit courses may register for audit courses with the approval of the Director of Admissions and the department chair. These persons must have graduated from high school or be 18 years of age or older. A student may not change from a grade point basis to audit or from audit to a grade point basis after the last day to add classes for that term. Fees for audits will be assessed on the same basis as fees for credit courses. Credit/No-Credit Courses The university, wishing to encourage mature students to broaden their range of interest without jeopardizing their grades, allows students who have earned at least 60 semester hours with a minimum Academic 12:03:12 PM]grade point average of 3.0 to enroll in credit/no-credit courses as determined by their college. Students are limited to one course per term and may not accumulate more than 12 semester hours on a credit/no-credit basis. (In most cases, Physical Activity courses are exempted from these requirements. See Graduation from the University.) Students who transfer from one college to another should be aware that credit/no-credit hours may be acceptable in one and not in another. Students may apply to take, on a credit/no-credit basis, a course that has been taken previously for a grade. In every instance, approval to register for a course on a credit/no-credit basis must be obtained from the advisor and the dean of the student's degree granting college. Credit hours earned on a credit/no-credit basis will be accepted toward degrees within the following limitations: The College of Arts and Sciences accepts hours earned on a credit/no-credit basis in any course that is not required for the student's degree. The Fogelman College of Business and Economics accepts hours earned on a credit/no-credit basis only in courses designated as electives in the student's degree program. The College of Communication and Fine Arts accepts hours earned on a credit/no-credit basis in any course that is not required for the student's major. The College of Education accepts hours earned on a credit/no-credit basis in any course that is not required for the student's major, professional educational requirements and endorsement requirements. The College of Engineering accepts hours earned on a credit/no-credit basis in any course that is not specifically required for the student's degree. The University College accepts hours earned on a credit/no-credit basis in any course that is not required for a student's Coordinated Study Program. A student who registers for a course on a credit/no-credit basis may change the registration to a letter grade-quality point basis only during the add period, and a student who registers for a course on a letter grade-quality point basis may change the registration to a credit/no-credit basis only during the add period. The student who successfully completes a credit/no-credit course will receive the appropriate number of hours as credit toward graduation. These hours will not be used in the computation of the quality point average.Undergraduate Grade Appeal Procedure This appeal procedure is designed to provide any undergraduate at The University of Memphis with a clearly defined avenue for appealing the assignment of a course grade which the student believes was based on prejudice, discrimination, arbitrary or capricious action, or other reasons not related to academic performance. In all cases the complaining student shall have the burden of proof with respect to the allegations in the complaint and in the request for a hearing. Students pursuing the appeal procedure must proceed through steps 1-3 listed below and file for a hearing in accordance with the following time limits. Grade appeals for the fall semester must be filed in the Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs by March 15 following the semester in which the grade was earned. Grade appeals for the spring or summer semesters must be filed in the office of the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs by October 15 of the same year. If a student fails to pursue the procedure within the time limits, the disposition of the student's complaint made in the last previous step shall be final. If the dean or chair fails to respond to the student's complaint within the time limits, the Undergraduate Appeals Committee will act on the student's complaint. The procedure is terminated if the student and the instructor agree on the grade or if the student fails to appeal a decision within the appropriate time limit. All correspondence and records will be retained in the office in which the complaint is terminated. Step 1 The student shall first consult with the instructor in an effort to provide a satisfactory resolution of the complaint. In the event the student cannot schedule a meeting with the instructor, the student may contact the department chair who will schedule the meeting between the student and the instructor. The only exception to this procedure is the case where the instructor is unavailable so that it is impossible to complete Step 1. Step 2 If the complaint is not resolved in Step 1, the student may present the complaint in writing to the chair of the department in Academic 12:03:12 PM]which the course was offered. The department chair will attempt to resolve the complaint in consultation with the instructor and the student within a fifteen-day period dating from the formal presentation of the written complaint. The department chair may, at his or her discretion, counsel with the faculty of the department. If the department chair was the instructor of the course involved in the complaint or if for any reason the chair disqualifies him/herself, the student may proceed to Step 3. The student's grade may be changed in Step 2 of the appeal procedure by the written consent of the instructor and the student . Step 3 If the complaint cannot be resolved at the level of Step 2 within the prescribed fifteen-day time period, the student may appeal further by presenting to the dean of the college a written statement which clearly explains the basis of the appeal (prejudice, discrimination, arbitrary or capricious action, or other reasons not related to academic performance), the evidence for this appeal, and any supporting data. The chair must also forward a copy of all correspondence and records to the dean. The dean may utilize any resources available to the dean's office to resolve the grade conflict within a fifteen-day period. If the dean finds that the request does not have merit, the dean shall so notify the student, the instructor, and chair. If the dean and chair are in agreement that the grade should be changed, either raised or lowered, the dean shall be empowered to change the grade without the instructor's consent. Otherwise the grade shall remain as recorded Either the student or the instructor may appeal the dean's decision made under Step 3 by filing, in the Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs, a written request for a hearing before the University Grade Appeals Committee within the time limit set forth above. In the event of such an appeal the decision shall be stayed pending the completion of the procedure in Step 4. The dean must be provided a copy of the hearing request. Step 4 The person requesting a hearing before the Grade Appeals Committee must complete a grade appeal form provided by the Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs by March 15 for grades earned the preceding fall semester and by October 15 for grades earned the preceding spring and summer semesters. All supporting documents should be included with this form at the time of submission. The Vice Provost for Academic Affairs will forward the request to the chair of the undergraduate grade appeal committee. The chair will subsequently distribute copies of the request to the members of the committee for consideration. If the committee finds the student's or the instructor's request merits a hearing, the committee shall notify the student, the instructor, the chair and the dean of the time and location of the hearing. If the committee finds that the request does not merit a hearing, the student and the instructor shall be notified in writing. The University Grade Appeals Committee shall function as a review board. The committee shall have the power to allow the assigned grade to stand or to raise or lower the assigned grade. All parties shall be notified, in writing, of the Committee's decision. The decision of the University Grade Appeals Committee will be final. The University Grade Appeals Committee shall be composed of seven members and seven alternates constituted as follows: A chair designated by the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs, a faculty member and alternate designated by the dean of the college involved, two faculty members and two alternates elected by the Academic Senate, one student and one alternate from the college involved, two students and two alternates selected through the Student Government Association. Although the primary responsibility of the committee is to review appeals, the committee will report any obvious discriminatory or capricious conduct on the part of either the student or the instructor to the appropriate Vice Provost for consideration and action. QUALITY POINTS In computing a student's scholarship ratio, or quality point average, all courses attempted are included except credit/no-credit, audit, incomplete, remedial and developmental, and satisfactory/unsatisfactory courses and "T" grades. As an example: a student carrying five three-semester-hour courses for a total of 15 semester hours makes the following grades: A, B, C, T, F, thus accumulating quality points in the amount of 12, 9,6,0, 0, for a total of 27. In computing the quality point average, the number of hours attempted (except "T" grade) (12) is divided into the quality points earned (27) for an average of 2.25. Graduation: A minimum 2.0 quality point average on all work attempted is required for graduation. Academic Fresh Start An ACADEMIC FRESH START, allowing calculation of quality point average and credit hours toward graduation to be based only on work done after returning to college, is provided for undergraduate students who have gained maturity through extended experience outside higher education institutions and Academic 12:03:12 PM]have demonstrated better than average academic performance following their return to The University of Memphis. Preliminary information and application forms may be obtained from the Academic Status and Retention Director. Requirements to be satisfied by a student requesting an Academic Fresh Start toward a baccalaureate degree are as follow: 1. Separation from all academic institutions for at least seven years. 2. After returning to college and prior to application for ACADEMIC FRESH START, completion of at least 24 semester hours of earned graded course work, at least six semester hours of which must have been successfully completed at The University of Memphis within one semester. 3. At the time of application, QPA of at least 2.5 for all work attempted after returning to college. 4. Formal application to the dean of the student's college, requesting that an ACADEMIC FRESH START be granted and describing an academic plan which must include the declaration of a major. Upon approval of the college dean, the student will be granted an Academic Fresh Start. It may be granted once. The student's permanent record will remain a record of all work; however, the student will forfeit the use for degree purposes at The University of Memphis any college or university credit earned prior to the seven-year separation indicated above. The date of the fresh start will coincide with the date of re-entry following prolonged separation, and the permanent record will note that a fresh start was made and the date of the fresh start. The record will also carry the notation, "QPA and credit totals are based only on work beginning with that date." That date will be treated as the date of entry in determining which catalogs may be used for graduation. The University of Memphis honors academic fresh start completed at other accredited institutions of higher education ACADEMIC STATUS AND RETENTION At The University of Memphis, students' academic status is denoted by one of three conditions: (l) GOOD STANDING (2) ACADEMIC PROBATION (3) ACADEMIC SUSPENSION Official notification of academic status is by means of the grade report processed to each student at the end of the regular semester or summer session. The academic status of probation or suspension will be stated at the end of the report of grades. Policies and procedures related to each of these conditions are outlined in the following comments. Good Standing Students are in good standing so long as their combined college level and developmental studies quality point average is equal to the minimum cumulative QPA required on the sliding retention scale as defined in this policy statement. The term good standing indicates only that students are meeting the minimum standard for retention in the university. However, in order to meet graduation requirements, students must have a cumulative QPA of 2.0. Academic Probation A student will be placed on academic probation at the completion of any regular semester or summer session when the student's cumulative combined college level and developmental studies QPA falls below the following: HOURS ATTEMPTED MINIMUM QPA 14.99 or less No minimum 15.00--29.99 1.40 30.00--50.99 1.70 51.00--67.99 1.90 68 and above 2.00 A student on academic probation who withdraws from the university during the first probationary semester will be "continued on academic probation." Withdrawal by such a student from any subsequent probationary semester will be treated as an academic suspension requiring clearance from the Academic Status and Retention Office for any future registration. Students who are enrolled on academic probation are allowed to register for the following semester. However, students whose grades result in an academic suspension will be automatically withdrawn from the university before classes for that term begin. For the purpose of participation in extracurricular and organizational activities sponsored by the university, students are considered in good standing and eligible to participate while on probation unless other requirements are specified by a particular group, organization, or activity. Academic Suspension Students on academic probation who, at the end of the following term of enrollment, fail to raise their QPAs to at least the required minimum on the Sliding Scale Retention Policy above will be suspended. There is one exception to this policy: students on academic probation will not be suspended at the end of any semester or summer session during which a term average of 2.00 has been earned. Academic 12:03:12 PM]1. A student who incurs a first suspension must remain out of the university a minimum of one regular semester (fall or spring).2. A student who incurs a second suspension must remain out of the university a minimum of one calendar year. 3. A student who incurs a third suspension must remain out of the university a minimum of three calendar years. 4. A student who has been readmitted following a third suspension and who then fails to meet the retention standards is ineligible for further enrollment at The University of Memphis. 5. Former The University of Memphis undergraduate students on academic suspension will be readmitted under the retention policy in effect their last semester at The University of Memphis. A counseling interview will be required prior to re- enrollment. Academic status will be determined by the Academic Retention Policy in effect in the current University Bulletin. Any course work attempted at another accredited college or university will be used in determining eligibility for readmission to The University of Memphis. The university office responsible for the administration of this policy is the Academic Status and Retention Office (Room 117, Administration Building). Recognition for Academic Performance There are several means available by which students may obtain recognition for outstanding academic performance. In addition to those listed below, there are other honors and awards listed in the descriptions of the various honors programs. THE DEAN'S LIST The Dean's List is composed of those students who meet one of the following criteria: 1. Completion of 6-8 graded hours in a semester with a semester quality point average of 4.00. 2. Completion of 9-11 graded hours in a semester with a semester quality point average of 3.66 or above. 3. Completion of 12 or more graded hours in a semester with a semester quality point average of 3.50 or above. When a course is being repeated for the purpose of improving a grade previously earned, the student must meet one of the criteria for the Dean's List eligibility as described above for each of two separate sets of courses and quality point averages: a. The number of graded hours and quality point average for unrepeated courses taken during the semester and b. The total number of hours and overall term quality point average for all graded courses taken during the semester. Remedial/developmental courses are not considered in calculating eligibility for the Dean's List. College level courses used to satisfy high school deficiencies will be considered in the computations to determine eligibility for the Dean's List. GRADUATION WITH DISTINCTION Students who meet the requirements described below are eligible to graduate cum laude, magna cum laude, or summa cum laude: 1. Fulfillment of graduation requirements 2. * Completion of a minimum of fifty (50) graded semester hours at The University of Memphis prior to graduation 3. Final cumulative quality point averages as follow: Cum Laude 3.2500-3.4999 Magna Cum Laude 3.5000-3.7999 Summa Cum Laude 3.8000-4.0000 *Recognition of graduation with distinction at commencement ceremonies will be based on the completion of a minimum of forty- five (45) graded semester hours at The University of Memphis prior to the final semester. (During the final semester, the student must also be enrolled for a sufficient number of hours to complete the required minimum of fifty.) This recognition is not an actual conferral of distinction. In order to be eligible, a student who transfers course work from another institution must have made the required average on all work taken at The University of Memphis and must, in addition, have an overall average that meets the honors requirements above. In no instance may the QPA used for determining graduation with distinction be higher than that earned on courses taken at The University of Memphis. A student who already holds a baccalaureate degree is eligible for these distinctions if the requirements above are met and if, within the hours presented to fulfill the requirements for the second degree, at least forty-five additional graded hours have been taken at The University of Memphis subsequent to the award of the first degree. (These hours would be for new courses, not courses repeated for a higher grade.) The QPA used for determination of distinction for the second degree will be calculated from all undergraduate courses taken. College level courses used to satisfy high school deficiencies will be considered in the computations to determine eligibility for graduation with distinction. Either the complete set of requirements governing graduation with distinction in the current catalog or the complete set in the Academic 12:03:12 PM]catalog governing the degree requirements for the student's graduation may be used to determine honors. PRIVACY RIGHTS OF PARENTS AND STUDENTS The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, with which the university intends to comply fully, is designed to protect the privacy of educational records, to establish the right of students to inspect and review their educational records, and to provide guidelines for the correction of inaccurate or misleading data through informal and formal hearings. Students also have the right to file complaints with The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Office (FERPA) concerning alleged failures by the institution to comply with the Act. The provisions for the release of information about students and the rights of students and others to have access to The University of Memphis education records are published in their entirety in the University of Memphis Procedure--Privacy of Education Records-- which is available in the offices of the Registrar or the University Counsel. A summary is published each semester in the Schedule of Classes.ADDITIONAL MEANS OF EARNING CREDIT Advanced Standing Credit Credit toward a degree will be accepted only from college-level institutions for courses that are substantially equivalent to those offered at The University of Memphis. After the student has been approved for admission as a regular undergraduate, the Office of Admissions will evaluate credits for university-wide use. The Office of the Dean in each college has the authority for determining the use of acceptable credit toward specific degree programs in that college. (Also see Transfer Credit section below.) In computing the scholarship ratio or quality point average of a student who has earned an associate degree from an institution with a grading practice that does not reflect failing grades, only those courses for which credit was granted will be used. A student who does not earn the associate degree prior to transfer or one who attends merely to take courses will have the quality point average computed using all courses attempted at that institution. Transfer credit from colleges not accredited by the Tennessee State Board of Education and/or the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools (or corresponding agencies for other states and regions of the United States) will not be accepted toward a degree or toward teacher licensure. Credit for Service in the Armed Forces Veterans who have completed one year or more of continuous full-time active military service will be excused from taking the required physical activity course(s) but must take HPER 1100, Concepts of Fitness and Wellness. In addition, six semester hours of health and physical education credit will be allowed upon presentation of a copy of the veteran's report of separation (DD Form 214) to the Admissions Office. Total physical activity course credit applicable to the baccalaureate degree cannot exceed 8 semester hours, regardless of the source. The Admissions Office should be consulted to determine whether additional credit may be allowed for training completed through formal service schools (DD Form 295). Certain subject standardized tests offered by the Defense Activity for Non-Traditional Education Support (D.A.N.T.E.S.) may be submitted for consideration. Official D.A.N.T.E.S. transcripts are required. The maximum amount of credit accepted for applicable D.A.N.T.E.S. courses and/or correspondence and extension courses is 33 semester hours, and 20 semester hours of lower division credit for selected service schools. (This restriction does not apply to credit accepted by the University College.) An official evaluation of service credit is not made until a student enrolls as a regular undergraduate student. Credit awarded for completion of selected service schools will be governed by the recommendations at the baccalaureate level as outlined in the current Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experience in the Armed Services. Noncollegiate Sponsored Instruction Credit may be obtained for applicable courses completed through certain non-collegiate sponsored instruction as recommended in the current A Guide to Educational Programs in Noncollegiate Organizations. No more than 20 semester hours credit for service schools and/or noncollegiate sponsored programs will be allowed. The Admissions Office should be contacted for further information. Advanced Placement Credit The University of Memphis participates in the Advanced Placement Program of the College Entrance Examination Board. To be eligible for credit, students must score a three, four, or five on the CEEB Advanced Placement Tests. Information pertaining to approved scores and credit to be awarded may be obtained from the Admissions Office. Academic 12:03:12 PM]Transfer Credit After enrollment as regular undergraduates at The University of Memphis, students should obtain prior approval from the dean of the college from which they are to graduate before taking a course at another institution for the purpose of meeting degree requirements at The University of Memphis. The student who intends to take a course at another institution should consult with the Admissions Office and obtain forms for use in securing the dean's approval. Courses taken without prior approval are subject to possible disapproval when they are presented for evaluation at The University of Memphis. Before credit earned at another institution can be transferred and recorded on a permanent academic record, the student must have an official transcript mailed to the Admissions Office and must contact the college dean's office to make arrangements for the posting of transfer credit by having the original copy of the form returned to the Admissions Office. The maximum credit hour load allowed for any term includes all course enrollments both at The University of Memphis and any concurrent enrollment at other institutions. (See "Credit Hours and Maximum Load.") Correspondence or Extension Credit The University of Memphis accepts a limited number of credits earned by correspondence and/or extension, provided that such credits are taken from an institution that is a member of the University Extension Association, or the appropriate regional accrediting association. The University of Memphis offers some work by extension but none by correspondence. Prior to a student's initial registration at The University of Memphis as a regular undergraduate, the Admissions Office will, at the time the student applies for admission, determine the acceptability of extension and/or correspondence credits earned at other institutions. After the student has been admitted as a regular undergraduate, whether a beginning freshman or a transfer student, credit applicable to any University of Memphis degree will not be given for subsequent correspondence or extension courses unless written permission from the dean of the degree granting college is obtained prior to enrollment in such courses. No student is permitted to enroll for correspondence or extension courses while carrying a maximum load at The University of Memphis. Not more than one-fourth of the semester hours applied on the bachelor's degrees may be earned by correspondence or extension or a combination of the two. (This restriction does not apply to degree programs of the University College.) A student who has completed thirty-three of the last sixty-six hours required for residence and who lacks no more than four semester hours toward completion of degree requirements may earn these final credits by acceptable correspondence or extension work, or by residence at another approved institution. In those instances in which the dean's office has granted such approval, thirty-three of the last seventy hours will have been completed at The University of Memphis. (For details of residence requirements, see Graduation from the University.) Credit by Course Placement In some departments, students who have obtained prior approval from the department chair may enroll in a University of Memphis course at the level for which they feel previous training or experience qualifies them and receive credit for certain sequential courses numbered lower than the one in which they enroll. Recording of credit for the lower numbered course(s) is contingent upon completion of the course with a grade of C or higher. Upon completion of the course written application to the chair of the department and payment of appropriate fees are required for such credits to be recorded. There is a fee for all placement credits that are recorded. It is the same as that for credit earned through credit by examination. For information on the fees, see Expenses and Aid. FOREIGN LANGUAGE: In the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures, all of the requirements and fees listed above are applicable and credit by course placement is limited to the following courses: Students whose first college-level course in a language is 2201 may apply to the department chair for credit for 1102 in that language, those whose first college-level course is 2202 or 2203 may apply for credit for 1102 and 2201 in that language, and those whose first college-level course in a language is a 3xxx course in composition and/or conversation may apply for credit for 1102, 2201 and 2202 in that language. University Credit by Examination Credit by examination refers to all of the types of credit described following this paragraph. Students may not take any examination for credit in a course previously taken for credit except to validate transfer courses for upper division credit. Students may, however, take an examination for credit in courses that were audited or in courses at a lower level than one that was taken for credit. Credit by examination may not be used to satisfy the Computation Intensive, Writing Intensive and Integration General Education requirements.CLEP EXAMINATIONS CLEP is a national program of credit-by-examination, sponsored by the College Entrance Examination Board. It offers students the Academic 12:03:12 PM]opportunity to obtain recognition for college-level achievement. Some departments accept CLEP subject area examination credits as equivalent to departmental courses. No credit will be awarded for CLEP general examinations. Information on courses for which CLEP credit is available, along with information of fees charged, is available in the Testing Center. DEPARTMENTAL EXAMINATIONS Almost all courses in the undergraduate curricula, except for those of laboratory, research, and performance variety, are available for credit by examination. Students who believe they have already mastered the material of a particular course offered at The University of Memphis may take a departmentally administered examination for credit in that course. Students should consult the department chair to make application and to obtain information concerning the courses offered. The following regulations govern the granting of credit by examination: 1. Any student who has been admitted to The University of Memphis-full-time or part-time-may make application to take an examination for credit. A student who has been admitted but who has not yet registered for courses at The University of Memphis will have any credit earned by examination posted to the permanent record after enrollment. Any student (other than first-time freshmen) must have a 2.0 QPA to apply for credit by examination. 2. Permission to take a credit examination must be obtained from the chair of the department in which credit is sought and from the dean of the college in which the student is seeking a degree. When permission is granted and after payment of the cost of the examination, the Admissions Office will issue an official permit for the examination. (See Fees and Charges). 3. The form of the examination, the method of administering it, and the time of examination are left to the discretion of departments.4. To receive credit, the student's examination grade should be a grade equivalent of at least a C. There are no university restrictions governing the number of credit hours which may be earned through credit by examination; however, the individual colleges may have some limitations. Students should check with the specific college concerning its degree requirements. Credit is indicated on the student's record as CR. CREDIT BY PLACEMENT EXAMINATION In some departments in which placement examinations are given, a student may elect to receive credit for certain sequential courses numbered lower than the course in which the student was placed if prior approval was obtained from the chair. (The Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures does not grant credit on the basis of placement examinations. See Credit by Course Placement above.) A student may take the placement test, which is given at the beginning of each semester, to best determine the initial course in which to be placed. A student completing the placement test may apply immediately for the hours of credit warranted by the test score. The student must make written application to the chair of the department and make payment of appropriate fees for such credit to be recorded. There is no fee charged for taking placement examinations; however, there is a fee for all placement credits that are recorded. For information on the fees, see Expenses and Aid. University Credit for Experiential Learning Students seeking degrees in the College of Communication and Fine Arts, the College of Education, and the University College may be granted credit for college-level knowledge and understanding gained from work experience, life experience, or for certain non- traditional instruction. The student who wishes an assessment of such learning prepares a detailed and documented portfolio of those learning experiences that are to be evaluated. Assessment by portfolio is reserved for knowledge and competencies which do not readily fit into the credit by examination procedures described above. More detailed information about procedures may be obtained from the individual colleges. For fee information, see Expenses and Aid. Graduation from the 12:03:12 PM]GRADUATION FROM THE UNIVERSITY GENERAL REQUIREMENTS GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR TEACHER LICENSURE CATALOG APPLICABILITY SECOND BACHELOR'S DEGREE GENERAL REQUIREMENTS Courses required for all baccalaureate degrees are outlined in the following section; specific requirements for the individual degrees are in the Colleges and Degree Programs section. Requirements for the Juris Doctor degree are in the Catalog of The School of Law; requirements for graduate degrees are in the Catalog of The Graduate School. The following have been established as minimum requirements by the university for all undergraduate degrees offered. In addition, the student must meet the requirements for the specific degree as established by the college or department in which it is offered. A minimum of 132 semester hours is required for all degrees except the accountancy major in the B.B.A. degree. In some degrees and majors, the courses that may be used to meet the university requirements below are specified. The assistance of an advisor for the particular degree and major must be sought to determine which courses will meet degree requirements.GENERAL EDUCATION The general education program is that part of the undergraduate curriculum that promotes a common background for all baccalaureate candidates. The purpose of the general education program is threefold: to help students develop the skills necessary for completing a college career and assuming an active role in contemporary society; to assist students in gaining an awareness of the diversity of human endeavors in intellectual, creative, social and technological spheres; and to help students develop analytical and critical faculties that can be applied across the range of issues confronting them in the modern world. The general education program extends beyond particular disciplines and majors to make available to students the tools and awareness necessary for active, lifelong learning and for active, literate participation in society. A. English Composition: 6 hours ENGL 1101 English Composition ENGL 1102 English Composition and Analysis All candidates for graduation at The University of Memphis are required to complete English 1101 and 1102, or their equivalents, with a grade of C or better. Before enrolling in English 1101, a student must have either (1) an ACT English score of 19 or above, or (2) an SAT verbal score of 360 or above, or (3) a satisfactory completion of a placement essay administered by The University of Memphis Testing Center. Those who do not must successfully complete R&DS 0810 with a grade of C or better before proceeding to English 1101. English 1101 and 1102 must be taken in sequence; no credit will be allowed for English 1102 until 1101 has been completed successfully. B. Oral Communication and Rhetoric: 3 hours COMM 2381 Oral Communication C. Mathematics: 3-6 hours MATH 1181-1182 (6) Concepts of Number/ Concepts of Algebra MATH 1312 (3) Elementary Calculus MATH 1321 (4) Analytic Geometry and Calculus MATH 2000 (3) Experiences in Mathematics D. Literary Heritage: 3 hours Graduation from the 12:03:12 PM]ENGL 2201 Literary Heritage ENGL 2202 Literary Heritage: African-American EmphasisE. Fine Arts Heritage: 3 hours ART 1101 Introduction to Art COMM 1851 Introduction to Film DANC 1151 Introduction to Dance MUHL 1101 Music Appreciation THEA 1551 Introduction to Theatre F. Historical/Philosophical Heritage: 6 hours Select one from each group. 1. Pre-1500: 3 hours CLAS 2481 Mythology HIST 1301 Development of World Civilization I PHIL 1101 Classical Issues in Philosophy POLS 1101 Introduction to Ancient Political Thought UNIV 2850 Religions of Abraham: Judaism,Christianity, Islam UNIV 3580 Hebrew and Greek Legacy 2. Post-1500: 3 hours HIST 1302 Development of World Civilization II PHIL 1102 Values and the Modern World POLS 1102 Introduction to Modern Political Thought UNIV 2860 Historical/Philosophical Perspectives on Cultural Confrontations UNIV 3581 Faith, Reason and Imagination G. *American Heritage: 6 hours HIST 2601 The United States to 1877 HIST 2602 The United States Since 1877 Thematic Courses: One of the following may be taken in lieu of either HIST 2601 or 2602: ANTH 3282 Cultural History of American Communities GEOG 3401 Historical Geography of the United States HIST 3863 Social and Intellectual History of the United States HIST 3900 History of Tennessee HIST 4851 History of Women in America HIST 4881 Black American History POLS 4212 Constitutional Law: The Origins and Evolution of Civil Liberties in the United StatesPOLS 4405 Origin and Development of American Political Thought SOCI 3422 Racial and Ethnic Minorities: A Socio-Historical Approach *This requirement is waived for engineering students and students enrolled in University College except for those who did not earn one unit in American History in high school. The state requires that students who did not earn one unit in American History in high school fulfill the American Heritage requirement during their first or second year at the university. Those students who use the G.E.D. rather than high school graduation for admission to the university will be considered as having the equivalent of a Tennessee high school diploma and thus, to have had the equivalent of American History in high school. This does not mean that a student admitted to The University of Memphis may take the G.E.D. as an exam for credit in American History. H. Social Science: 6 hours (One course from list 1 and one from list 1 or list 2) 1. Global Perspective: (One must be selected from this group) ANTH 1200 Cultural Anthropology CJUS 2110 Comparative Justice Systems ECON 2110 Introduction to Macroeconomics GEOG 1301 Survey of World Regions GEOG 1401 Introduction to Cultural Geography POLS 2301 Comparative Politics POLS 2501 International Politics PYSC 2201 Deviance: Its Role in History and Culture SOCI 2100 Sociology of International Development SOCI/CSED 2101 The Family in Global Perspective Graduation from the 12:03:12 PM]UNIV 2304 Gender and Society 2. (One may be selected from this group or list 1) ANTH 1100 Human Origins and Variation CJUS 1100 Introduction to Criminal Justice ECON 2120 Introduction to Microeconomics POLS 1100 American Government PSYC 1101 General Psychology SOCI 1111 An Introduction to Sociology I. Natural Science: 8 hours (Sequence required) BIOL 1051/1052- 1061/1062 Biology: A Human Perspective BIOL 1151/1152- 1161/1162 General Biology I & II CHEM 1101-1102 College Chemistry I & II CHEM 1121/1131- 1122/1132 Principles of Chemistry GEOG 1001/1011- 1002/1022 Introduction to Environmental and Earth Science GEOL 1101-1103 Physical and Environmental GeologyPHYS 1001/1010- 1002/1020 Introductory Physics and Astronomy PHYS 2003/2510- 2004/2520 Physics for Science and Engineering UNIV 1610-1611 Natural Science J. Fitness and Wellness: (4 hours) HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002, THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Any student except those with a major or minor in Physical Education or those seeking a B.B.A. degree has the option of taking the activity courses for a letter grade or on a credit/no credit basis. A student unable, for medical or other reasons, to take regular physical activity courses is required to register for an adaptive class, or otherwise follow recommendations of the Chair of the Department of Human Movement Sciences and Education. Students completing NAVY 1100,1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). Only students in the following programs may apply more than 8 semester hours of physical activity credit to the minimum degree requirement of 132 semester hours (see specific college limitations): Physical Education major or minor, Recreation major, B.F.A. Theatre major with a concentration in Performance or Dance, Theatre or Dance minor. K. Computation Intensive [C]: (3 hours) At least one upper division course designated as computation intensive and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the General Education mathematics requirement. L. Writing Intensive [W]: (3 hours) At least one upper division course designated as writing intensive and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the General Education English composition requirement. M. Integrative [I]: (3 hours) At least one upper division course designated as integrative and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of General Education English composition, oral communication, and mathematics requirements. Graduation from the 12:03:12 PM]NOTE: Under most circumstances, transfer courses may not be used to satisfy the Computation Intensive, Writing Intensive, and Integrative requirements. COMPUTER LITERACY Students who entered The University of Memphis or any other institution as beginning freshmen in fall 1984 or later, are required to possess competency in computer literacy before graduating. Competency may be gained by either passing grades in designated coursework or passing a specially designed test. Courses that fulfill this requirement are specified by the college in which the student is enrolled for a degree. Students interested in taking the test should consult their college dean. QUALITY POINT AVERAGE To receive a bachelor's degree from any of the colleges in the university, students must have a quality point average of at least 2.00 (i.e., two quality points for every semester hour attempted). If for any reason a student offers more than 132 semester hours credit for graduation, the ratio of two quality points to one semester hour of credit must be maintained. To attain this standard the candidate must have a C average on all courses attempted in the university. Students with transfer credit are required to maintain an average of C on all courses taken at The University of Memphis. RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS A student will satisfy residence requirements for graduation by completing, at The University of Memphis, 33 of the final 66 semester hours required for a degree. A student transferring credits from a two-- year college institution must complete, as a requirement for the baccalaureate degree, a minimum of sixty semester hours in an accredited senior institution. In addition, the student must meet the residence requirements for the specific degree as established by the college in which it is offered. Exceptions to residence requirements can be authorized by the appropriate dean. Residence requirements for specific degrees within each college may be found in the Colleges, Degree Programs and Courses section. For more details, the student should inquire in the office of the dean of the appropriate college. A student who has completed thirty-three of the last sixty-six hours required for residence and who lacks no more than four semester hours toward completion of degree requirements may earn these final credits by acceptable correspondence or extension work, or by residence at another approved institution. In those instances in which the dean's office has granted such approval, thirty-three of the last seventy hours will have been completed at The University of Memphis. TESTING AS A PREREQUISITE FOR GRADUATION Any or all students may be required to take one or more tests designed to measure general education achievement and achievement in their major as a prerequisite to graduation, for the purpose of evaluation of academic programs. Unless otherwise provided for in any individual program, no minimum score or level of achievement is required for graduation. Participation in testing may be required for all students, for students in selected programs, and for students selected on a sample basis. Details concerning these regulations and the dates of the examinations will appear in the Schedule of Classes each semester. FILING FOR GRADUATION All students are required to file an intention to graduate during the semester preceding the semester of graduation. The deadlines for this filing are included in the academic calendars of the catalogs and the schedules of classes. It is the responsibility of the student to insure that this deadline is met. REQUIREMENTS FOR TEACHER LICENSURE Graduation from the 12:03:12 PM]An undergraduate student can be recommended for licensure to teach in Elementary Education (Grades 1- 8); Early Childhood Education (Grades PreK-3); or Special Education (Grades K-12); or Physical Education (Grades K-12) in the State of Tennessee by completing all degree requirements for that endorsement as outlined for the Bachelor of Science in Education in the COLLEGE OF EDUCATION DEGREE PROGRAMS section of this catalog. A student in any of these programs must (1) file an application for admission to the Teacher Education Program in The College of Education; (2) fulfill the requirements and application procedures for the Internship/ Student Teaching Program; (3) file an intent to graduate application before the university deadline; (4) have an overall QPA of no less than 2.50 and a grade of C or above in each required professional education course; (5) take the Core Battery and the Specialty area (if required) of the National Teacher Examinations (NTE); and (6) fulfill all other graduation requirements listed under the TEACHER EDUCATION PROGRAMS: REQUIREMENTS section. Students entering the university for the first time as freshmen who wish to prepare for teaching careers in fields other than Elementary Education, Early Childhood Education, Special Education, or Physical Education should see the academic advisor in the College of Education, Room 204. Graduate, special, and transfer students who wish to obtain a teacher's license should confer with the academic advisor in the College of Education, Room 204, concerning their individual requirements. CATALOG APPLICABILITY A student may complete the requirements for the initial degree under the provisions of any valid U of M catalog provided the effective date of that catalog is not earlier than the student's initial admission to U of M or some other accredited institution of higher learning. The degree requirements published in the Undergraduate Catalog issue of The University of Memphis Bulletin are valid for seven years from the beginning of the academic year to which the catalog applies. This issue of the catalog is valid through summer 2002. (The validity date for the 1988-89 undergraduate catalog has been extended from summer 1995 to summer 1996.) With the approval of the dean of the college through which the student's degree is offered, any student who had completed at least fifteen semester hours of course work and whose progress was interrupted by a call to active military duty may extend the validity date for graduation for any catalog valid at the time of the call to active duty. Though the student should attempt to complete requirements within the normal seven-year validity period, the dean may grant an extension commensurate with actual time served on active military duty and time required for directly related medical treatment that prevents the student's re- enrollment. Qualification for this extension is contingent upon re-enrollment within a period of time deemed reasonable by the dean. The extension is not allowed for a full military career. Selection of a minor may be made from a valid catalog other than the one used for degree requirements unless the minor is restricted to a particular degree. Unrestricted minors may be selected from the same catalog as that used for degree requirements or from any subsequent catalog. Unrestricted minors approved too late for inclusion in the current bulletin may also be selected. In the case of both restricted and unrestricted minors, the QPA required for the minor is that of the degree-granting college in the catalog under which the student is graduating. Currently available minors are listed in the catalog index under Minor.SECOND BACHELOR'S DEGREE A student who completes the requirements for one bachelor's degree from The University of Memphis may receive a second bachelor's degree upon the completion of the curriculum prescribed in the current catalog or any other valid catalog approved by the appropriate degree-granting college. The two degrees may be conferred simultaneously or subsequently. General Education requirements used for the initial The Graduation from the 12:03:12 PM]University of Memphis degree will satisfy university General Education requirements for subsequent degrees; however, the student must meet college degree and major requirements from the catalog being used for the second degree. The student is limited to one degree with the same title. Students who are seeking a second bachelor's degree and who have earned the initial bachelor's degree from another institution are subject to all catalog regulations applicable to transfer students. SECOND MAJOR If a student completes the requirements from a valid catalog for an additional major for a degree previously earned at The University of Memphis, that major may be posted on the student's record if the student applies for the additional major through the appropriate dean's office Colleges and Degree 12:03:13 PM]COLLEGES AND DEGREE PROGRAMS The following section contains the specific requirements for completing each degree, major, minor, and certificate offered by the university. It is organized by college and department. For a statement concerning how to use the catalog for degree program planning click here . Students are urged to consult with an advisor for assistance in planning their degree programs and selecting appropriate courses. 1. College of Arts & Sciences Anthropology, Biology, Chemistry, Criminology and Criminal Justice, English, Foreign Languages & Literatures, Geography and Planning, Geological Sciences, History, International Relations, Mathematical Sciences, Philosophy, Physics, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology & Social Work, ROTC Programs 2. Fogelman College of Business and Economics School of Accountancy, Economics, Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate, International Business, Management, Management Information Systems and Decision Sciences, Marketing 3. College of Communication and Fine Arts Art, Communication, Journalism, Music, Theatre and Dance 4. College of Education Consumer Science and Education, Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research, Human Movement Sciences & Education, Instruction & Curriculum Leadership, Leadership 5. Herff College of Engineering Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Engineering Technology, Mechanical Engineering 6. Loewenberg School of Nursing 7. University College 8. Independent Programs University Honors Program, Audiology & Speech-Language Pathology, Interdisciplinary Studies, The University of Memphis Libraries, Orientation Program, Remedial and Developmental Studies Course 12:03:13 PM]COURSE DESCRIPTIONS Explanation of course description format: The official course title appears in boldface type following the course number. The figures in parentheses after the course title denote the number of semester hours of credit for that course. If the credit is variable, to be determined by the department, that fact is indicated by the minimum and maximum credit, as BIOL 4000 (2-4). If the phrase "Same as . . ." and another course number appear in parentheses following the credit hours, the course is cross listed with a course in another department, and when offered by both departments, may be taken through either. If another course number in parenthesis follows the credit hours, it is the former number for the same course. Credit may not be received for both the former number and the current number of the same course. For those courses including regular laboratory hours, the lecture/laboratory hour distribution is written in italics near the end of the course description. At the end of many course descriptions, prerequisites and/or corequisites are listed. Students are responsible for meeting the stated prerequisites prior to enrolling for the course. A [G] at the end of the course description indicates that the course may be used to fulfill university general education requirements. These requirements vary somewhat according to the particular degree program or major. Similarly, a [W] indicates a course approved as writing intensive for some programs, a [C] indicates a computation intensive course, and an [I] indicates an integrative course. Courses are numbered according to the following system: 0001-0999 Courses for which the credit does not apply toward minimum degree requirements or for which credit is restricted. (For some of these courses, there is a corresponding 5000 graduate level non-degree credit course.) 1000-1999 Courses primarily for freshmen 2000-2999 Courses primarily for sophomores 3000-3999 Courses primarily for juniors 4000-4999 Courses primarily for seniors and for which graduate credit is not offered. (There is sometimes a corresponding 6000 number for which graduate credit is offered to graduate students who fulfill the additional requirements for such credit.) 1000-2000 level courses are lower division courses, 3000-4000 level courses are upper division courses. Course numbers have no reference to the semester in which the courses are taught. The Schedule of Classes is published a few weeks before priority registration for each semester and the Summer Session. It contains a listing of the specific courses to be offered, with the time, place and instructor in charge of each section. It also contains special announcements concerning registration procedures and courses which may have been added since the publication of the catalog. Copies are available outside the Registration Services Office, room 167 in the Administration Building. ELEMENTS OF COURSE DESCRIPTION 14002- 26002. 3Museum Operation. 4(3). 5(3050). 6(Same as ANTH 4002). 7Basic aspects of museum organization, management, exhibit planning and execution, and maintenance of collections and records. 8Two lecture/two laboratory hours per week. 9(F). 10PREREQUISITE:ART 3090. l1COREQUISITE: ART 4001. 12(S/U). 13[G].1. Course number/level 2. 6000 level cognate 3. Course title 4. Credit hours 5. Former course number 6. Cross listing 7. Course description 8. Lecture/laboratory description 9. Semester in which course usually offered: (F) = Fall, (Sp) = Spring, (Su) = Summer 10. Prerequisite11. Corequisite12. Special Grading 13. General Education * * [G] = General Education; [C] = Computation Intensive; [W] = Writing Intensive; [I] = Integrative Course 12:03:13 PM]1. College of Arts & Sciences ANTHROPOLOGY (ANTH) BIOLOGY (BIOL) CHEMISTRY (CHEM) CRIMINOLOGY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE (CJUS) ENGLISH (ENGL) FOREIGN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES CLASSICS (CLAS) GREEK (GREK) LATIN (LATN) LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE (LALI) ARABIC (ARAB) CHINESE (CHIN) FRENCH (FREN) GERMAN (GERM) HEBREW (HEBR) ITALIAN (ITAL) JAPANESE (JAPN) RUSSIAN (RUSS) SPANISH (SPAN) GEOGRAPHY AND PLANNING (GEOG) GEOLOGICAL SCIENCES (GEOL) GEOPHYSICS (GEOP) HISTORY (HIST) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (INTL) MATHEMATICS (MATH) COMPUTER SCIENCE (COMP) PHILOSOPHY (PHIL) PHYSICS (PHYS) POLITICAL SCIENCE (POLS) OPEN LEARNING FIRE SERVICES PROGRAM (OLFSP) PSYCHOLOGY (PSYC) SOCIOLOGY (SOCI) SOCIAL WORK (SWRK) AEROSPACE STUDIES (AERO) MILITARY SCIENCE (ARMY) NAVAL SCIENCE (NAVY) 2. Fogelman College of Business and Economics ACCOUNTANCY (ACCT) BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (BA) ECONOMICS (ECON) FINANCE, INSUARNCE, AND REAL ESTATE (FIR) MANAGEMENT (MGMT) INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND DECISION SCIENCES (ISDS) MARKETING (MKTG) 3. College of Communication and Fine Arts COMMUNICATION/FINE ARTS (CCFA) ART (ART) COMMUNICATION (COMM) JOURNALISM (JOUR) MUSICMUSIC THEORY AND COMPOSITION (MUTC) MUSIC HISTORY, LITERATURE, AND APPRECIATION (MUHL) SACRED MUSIC (MUSA) APPLIED MUSIC (MUAP) MUSIC EDUCATION (MUSE) COMMERCIAL MUSIC (CMUS) THEATRE (THEA) DANCE (DANC) 4. College of Education CONSUMER SCIENCE AND EDUCATION (CSED) COUNSELING, EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY & RESEARCH COUNSELING AND PERSONNEL SERVICES (COUN) EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY AND RESEARCH (EDPR) REHABILITATION SERVICES (REHB) HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCES AND EDUCATION HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION (HPER) HEALTH (HLTH) SAFETY EDUCATION (SAFE) PHYSICAL EDUCATION (PHED) RECREATION (RECR) INSTRUCTION AND CURRICULUM LEADERSHIP EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (ECED) ELEMENTARY EDUCATION (ELED) INSTRUCTION AND CURRICULUM LEADERSHIP (ICL) SPECIAL EDUCATION (SPED) EDUCATIONAL SERVICES (EDSV) LEADERSHIP (LEAD) 5. Herff College of Engineering ENGINEERING (ENGR) CIVIL ENGINEERING (CIVL) ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (ELEC) ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY TECHNOLOGY (TECH) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (MECH) 6. Loewenberg School of Nursing NURSING (NURS) 7. University College THEMATIC STUDIES (UNIV) INDIVIDUALIZED STUDIES (UNIV) EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING (UNIV) 8. Independent Programs UNIVERSITY HONORS PROGRAM (UNHP) SCHOOL OF AUDIOLOGY AND SPEECH-LANGUAGE PATHOLOGY AUDIOLOGY AND SPEECH PATHOLOGY (AUSP) INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIES (INTD) UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS LIBRARIES (LBRY) ORIENTATION PROGRAM (ACAD) REMEDIAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL STUDIES (R&DS) Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]FACULTY AND STAFF UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION V. LANE RAWLINS , Ph.D., President J. IVAN LEGG , Ph.D., Provost R. EUGENE SMITH , Ph.D., Vice President for Business and Finance SAMUEL B. LONG, III , B.A., Vice President for Advancement DONALD K. CARSON , Ph.D., Vice President for Student Affairs and Vice Provost for Enrollment Services DORIS R. KIRBY , J.D., Assistant to the President, Legal DEBORAH W. BAKER , B.A., Interim Director of University Community Relations DONALD R. FRANCESCHETTI , Ph.D., Interim Vice Provost for Research SIDNEY A. McPHEE , Ph.D., Vice Provost for Academic Affairs VAN N. OLIPHANT , D.B.A., Interim Vice Provost for Extended Programs DAVID H. CISCEL , Ph.D., Interim Dean, Graduate School WILLIAM E. CARPENTER , Ph.D., Dean, College of Arts and Sciences DONNA M. RANDALL , Ph.D., Dean, Fogelman College of Business and Economics RICHARD R. RANTA , Ph.D., Dean, College of Communication and Fine Arts NATHAN ESSEX , Ph.D., Dean, College of Education RICHARD C. WARDER, JR. , Ph.D., Dean, Herff College of Engineering TONI BARGAGLIOTTI , D.N.Sc., Dean, Loewenberg School of Nursing H. RAMSEY FOWLER , Ph.D., Dean, University College DONALD J. POLDEN , J.D., Dean, Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law LESTER J. POURCIAU, JR. , Ph.D., Director of Libraries MARANELL K. SLUTSKY , M.Ed., Director of Curriculum Planning DAVID L. SIGSBEE , Ph.D., Director of General Education Program DAVID R. WALLACE , M.S., Director of Admissions NOEL A. SCHWARTZ , M.Ed., Registrar REBECCA ARGALL , M.A., Interim Director of Remedial and Developmental Programs THE COLLEGES AND DEPARTMENTS COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES COLLEGE OF BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS COLLEGE OF COMMUNICATION AND FINE ARTS COLLEGE OF EDUCATION HERFF COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING SCHOOL OF AUDIOLOGY AND SPEECH-LANGUAGE PATHOLOGYLOEWENBERG SCHOOL OF NURSING UNIVERSITY COLLEGE FACULTY COUNCIL UNIVERSITY HONORS PROGRAM FACULTY ADVISORY COUNCIL INDEPENDENT PROGRAMS RESEARCH AND SERVICES THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES WILLIAM E. CARPENTER , Ph.D., Dean, College of Arts and Sciences H. DELANO BLACK , Ph.D., Associate Dean THOMAS R. CAPLINGER , Ph.D., Associate Dean JOHN R. HADDOCK , Ph.D., Director of Graduate Studies and Research KAREN THURMOND , M.A., Graduation Analyst FRANK M. DYER, JR. , Ed.D., Academic Counselor MARCIA TAYLOR , B.S., Assistant to the Dean DANIEL S. BEASLEY , Ph.D., Special Assistant to the Dean CHARLENE ALLEN , M.A., Academic Adviser JAMES M. KNIGHT, SR. , Ph.D., Academic Advisor AEROSPACE STUDIES Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]JOSEPH C. BRYANT , Lt. Col., USAF Professor of Aerospace Studies JOSEPH C. BRYANT (1993) , Lieutenant Colonel, United States Air Force; Professor: B.S., 1975, United States Air Force Academy; M.S., 1984, Air Force Institute of Technology ROBERT W. CHRISTENSEN (1992) , Major, United States Air Force; Assistant Professor: B.A., 1978, J.D., 1981, Memphis State University; M.S., 1991, Troy State University W. SCOTT GILLEY (1994) , Captain, United States Air Force; Assistant Professor: B.S., 1982, Memphis State University; M.A., 1988, Webster University at Colorado Springs GARY C. KENDALL (1993) , Staff Sergeant, United States Air Force; Noncommissioned Officer in Charge of Information Management STEPHEN N. MILBY (1993) , Staff Sergeant, United States Air Force; Noncommissioned Officer in Charge of Personnel ANTHROPOLOGYLINDA A. BENNETT , Ph.D., Chair LINDA A. BENNETT (1986) , Professor, Chair: B. A., 1965, Clarion State College; M.A., 1966, Indiana University; Ph. D., 1976, American University THOMAS W. COLLINS (1972) , Professor: B.S., 1957, Central Michigan University; M.A., 1962, Western Michigan University; M.A., 1967, Ph.D., 1971, University of Colorado DAVID H. DYE (1981) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1972, Memphis State University; M.A., 1976, Louisiana State University; Ph.D., 1980, Washington University RUTHBETH D. FINERMAN (1985) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1977, M. A., 1979, Ph.D., 1985, University of California at Los AngelesNANCY HEPLER (1993) , Research Associate Professor: B.A., 1974, Mississippi State University; M.A., 1976, Emory University; Ph.D., 1981, Georgia State University STANLEY E. HYLAND (1976) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1969, M.A., 1970, University of Cincinnati; Ph.D., 1976, University of Illinois MONTE RAY KENASTON (1966) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1957, University of Texas; M.A., 1966, Washington State University; Ph.D., 1972, Southern Illinois University CHARLES H. McNUTT (1964) , Professor: B.S., 1950, University of the South; M.A., 1954, University of New Mexico; Ph.D., 1960, University of Michigan GERALD P. SMITH (1968) , Research Associate Professor: B.A., 1963, Southwestern at Memphis; M.A., 1965, University of North Carolina; Ph.D., 1971, University of Missouri CHARLES WILLIAMS, JR. (1979) , Associate Professor: B.A. 1969, Rust College; M.A., 1976, Ph.D., 1981, University of Illinois BIOLOGYMELVIN L. BECK , Ph.D., Chair HAROLD R. BANCROFT (1962) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1958, M.S., 1959, Ph.D, 1962, Mississippi State University MELVIN L. BECK (1974) , Professor, Chair: B.S., 1967, Arkansas Tech. College; Ph D., 1974, University of Arkansas HOWARD BERG (1987) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1972, M.S., 1975, Ph.D., 1977, Unlversity of Florida CHARLES J. BIGGERS (1969) , Professor: B.S., 1957, Wake Forest University; M.A., 1959, Appalachian State University; Ph.D., 1969, University of South Carolina H. DELANO BLACK (1970) , Associate Professor: Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences: B.A., 1959, Hendrix College; M.S., 1965, University of Arkansas; Ph.D., 1971, University of Nebraska CARL D. BROWN (1951) , Professor Emeritus: B.S., 1947, Oklahoma Baptist University; M.S., 1947, Louisiana State University; Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]Ph.D., 1951, lowa State University MARTHA P. BROWN (1966) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1963, M.S., 1966, Memphis State University KING-THOM CHUNG (1988) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1965, National Taiwan University; M.A., 1967, University of California, Santa Cruz; Ph.D., 1972, University of California, Davis LEWIS B. COONS (1976) , Professor, Director of Electron Microscope Center: B.A., 1964, M.S. 1966, Utah State University; Ph.D., 1970, North Carolina State University ROBERT J. COOPER (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1975, M.S., 1979, University of Georgia; Ph.D., 1988, West Virginia UniversityJAMES W. DAVENPORT (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1974, University of Michigan; Ph.D., 1983, Cornell University KENNETH B. DAVIS, JR. (1969) , Professor: B.A., 1963, M.S., 1965, University of Arkansas; Ph.D., 1970, Louisiana State University T. KENT GARTNER (1976) , Professor: B.S., 1960, Rutgers University; Ph.D., 1965, University of California, Davis JACK W. GRUBAUGH (1995) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1978, Central College; M.S., 1983, Western Illinois University; Ph.D., 1994, University of Georgia WILLIAM H. N. GUTZKE (1986) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1975, M.S., 1977, Virginia Commonwealth University; Ph.D., l984, Colorado State University GOLDEN LEON HOWELL (1961) , Professor: B.S., 1950, M.S., 1954, Ph.D., 1959, University of Alabama MICHAEL L. KENNEDY (1974) , Professor: B.S., 1966, M.S., 1968, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1975, University of Oklahoma. JOSEPH S. LAYNE (1965) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1959, Marshall University; M.S., 1961, University of Arkansas; Ph.D., 1964, University of Mississippi Medical Center CHARLES LESSMAN (1988) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1970, M.S., 1975, Ph.D., 1980, University of Minnesota KURT J. MAIER (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1978, University of California at Berkeley; M.S., 1982, California State University at Haywood; Ph.D., 1992, University of California at Davis NEIL A. MILLER (1968) , Professor: B.S.F., 1958, Michigan State University; M.S., 1964, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1968, Southern Illinois University DONALD D. OURTH (1974) , Professor: B.A., 1961, M.A., 1966, University of Northern Iowa; Ph.D., 1969, University of Iowa JAMES F. PAYNE (1968) , Professor, Chair: B.S., 1962, University of Tennessee at Martin; M.S., 1965, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1968, Mississippi State University S. REZA PEZESHKI (1994) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1971, University of Tehran; M.S., 1977, Ph.D., 1982, University of Washington BILL AL SIMCO (1966) , Professor: B.S., 1960, College of the Ozarks, M.A., 1962, Ph.D., 1966, University of Kansas OMAR E. SMITH (1961) , Professor: B.S., 1954, Memphis State University; M.S., 1958; Ph.D., 1961, Iowa State University S. EDWARD STEVENS, JR. (1989) , Professor, Chair of Excellence in Molecular Biology: B.A., 1966, M.A., 1968, Ph.D., 1971, University of Texas, Austin BARBARA J. TALLER (1983) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1971, Baldwin-Wallace College; Ph.D., 1978, University of Wisconsin- MadisonTIT YE WONG (1985) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1974, M.S., 1976, Murray State University; Ph.D., 1981, University of Houston CHEMISTRYHENRY A. KURTZ , Ph.D., Chair PETER K. BRIDSON (1980) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1975, Ph.D., 1978, University of London Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]THEODORE J. BURKEY (1985) , Associate Professor: B.S. 1976, Harvey Mudd College; M.S., 1978, Ph.D., 1982, University of California, San Diego JAMES C. CARTER (1974) , Professor: B.S.Chem., 1953, University of Oklahoma; M.S.Chem., 1955, Ph.D., 1961, University of Michigan THOMAS R. CUNDARI (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1986, Pace University; Ph.D., 1990, University of Florida CHHABIL DASS (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.Sc., 1962, M.Sc., 1964, Rajasthan University; Ph.D., 1984, University of Nebraska MARK BARRY FREILICH (1985) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1966, Brooklyn College (C.U.N.Y.); Ph.D., 1974, Purdue University PEIXIN HE (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1977, M.S., 1979; Fudan University; Ph.D., 1985, University of Illinois LARRY WAYNE HOUK (1968) , Professor: B.S., 1963, Middle Tennessee State University; Ph.D., 1967, University of Georgia H. GRADEN KIRKSEY (1965) , Professor: B.S., 1961, Middle Tennessee State Universiy; Ph.D., 1966, Auburn University HENRY A. KURTZ (1983) , Professor, Chair: B.S., 1972, Georgia Institute of Technology; Ph.D., 1977, University of Florida YING-SING LI (1982) , Professor: B.S., 1960, Cheng Kung University; Ph.D., 1968, University of Kansas ROGER VAUGHAN LLOYD (1975) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1958, Pennsylvania State University; M.S., 1961, West Virginia University; Ph.D., 1971, Carnegie-Mellon University RICHARD L. PETERSEN (1980) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1969, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Ph.D., 1975, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee PARTHA S. RAY (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1978, M.S., 1979, Ph.D., 1981, University of East Anglia CHARLES NELSON ROBINSON (1961) , Professor: B.S., 1949, Maryville College; M.S., 1951, Ph.D., 1953, University of TennesseeJAMES C. WILLIAMS (1967) , Professor: B.S., 1955, Ouachita College; Ph.D., 1964, University of Missouri WILLIAM HENRY ZUBER, JR. (1966) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1960, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1964, University of KentuckyCRIMINOLOGY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE JERRY R. SPARGER , Ph.D., Chair L. EDWARD DAY (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1979, Loyola University of Chicago; M.A., 1984, Ph.D., 1992, University of Washington DAVID R. FORDE (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.Sc., 1982, University of Victoria; M.A., 1987, University of Manitoba; Ph.D., 1992, University of Alberta DAVID J. GIACOPASSI (1977) , Professor: B.A., 1969, St. Anselm College; M.A., 1971, Ph.D., 1975, University of Notre Dame W. RICHARD JANIKOWSKI (1988) , Associate Professor, Graduate Coordinator: B.A., 1979, Loyola University of Chicago; J.D., 1982, DePaul University JAMES M. KNIGHT, SR. (1971) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1963, Arkansas State University; M.Ed., 1971, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1978, Southern Illinois University JERRY R. SPARGER (1974) , Professor, Chair: B.A., 1964, Wake Forest University; M.A., 1965, Appalachian State University; Ph.D., 1973, University of Tennessee MARGARET VANDIVER (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1975, University of Colorado; M.A., 1983, Ph.D., 1989, Florida State UniversityMARY MARGARET WEDDINGTON (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1970, Rhodes College; J.D., 1978, Memphis State University; L.L.M., 1988, University of Virginia ENGLISH Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]CHARLENE JAYROE ALLEN (1960) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1957, Rhodes College; M.A., 1958, University of Alabama REBECCA STOUT ARGALL (1966) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1965, Guilford College; M.A., 1966, University of North Carolina SHELLEY S. ARMITAGE (1993) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1969, M.A., 1971; Texas State University; Ph.D., 1983, University of New Mexico MARY VROMAN BATTLE (1968) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1948, College of St. Teresa; M.A., 1954, Catholic University of America; Ed.D., 1986, Memphis State University LYNETTE COOK BLACK (1977) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1961, Hendrix College; Certificate, 1962, Universite de Montpellier; M.A., 1964, University of Arkansas; Ph.D., 1972, University of Nebraska THERON BRITT (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1978, University of Oregon; M.A., 1982, Ph.D., 1990, University of California of IrvineSHARON BRYAN (1987) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1965, University of Utah; M.A., 1969, Cornell University; M.F.A., 1977, University of lowa DAVID BURTON (1992) , Instructor: B.A., 1983, California University of Pennsylvania; M.A., 1991, Memphis State University THOMAS CLARK CARLSON (1971) , Professor: B.A., 1966, Bucknell University; M.A., 1969, Ph.D., 1971, Rutgers University WILLIAM E. CARPENTER (1988) , Professor: B.A., 1960, Sentenary College; Ph.D., 1967, University of Kansas DIPA CHAWLA (1994) , Instructor: B.A., 1987, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga; M.A., 1989, Memphis State University MARVIN K. L. CHING (1974) , Professor: B.Ed., 1956, M.A., 1968, University of Hawaii; Ph.D., 1975, Florida State University PATRICIA ELIZABETH CONNORS (1983) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1968, Edgecliff College; M.A., 1970, Xavier University; Ph.D., 1978, University of Detroit TERESA SPROUL DALLE (1984) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1970, Memphis State University; M.S., 1974, M.A., 1975, Ph.D., 1983, University of Arizona JOSEPH KIMBRELL DAVIS (1980) , Professor: B.S., 1953, University of Southern Mississippi; M.A., 1955, University of Mississippi; Ph.D., 1960, Emory University WILLIAM BARTLETT FRANCIS DeLOACH (1972) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1961, University of Michigan; M.A., 1965, Ph.D., 1973, University of Illinois CATHERINE POWERS DICE (1994) , Instructor: B.A., 1989, M.A., 1991, Memphis State University RETA V. DOUGLAS (1993) , Instructor: B.S., 1974, University of Southern Mississippi; M.Ed., 1976, William Carey College; M.A., 1993, Memphis State University TERESA DUMA (1993) , Instructor: B.A., 1962, Benedictine University of Kansas; M.A., 1987, Memphis State University JOHN N. DUVALL (1987) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1978, Ohio State University; M.A., 1980, University of Delaware; Ph.D., 1986, University of Illinois KAY PARKHURST EASSON (1977) , Professor: B.A., 1962, M.A., 1968, Ph.D., 1970, University of Tulsa PEGGY W. FAULKNER (1992) , Instructor: B.S., 1966, M.A., 1970, Memphis State University MICHELE LANETTE FORD (1994) , Instructor: B.S., 1992, M.A., 1994, The University of Memphis H. RAMSEY FOWLER (1968) , Associate Professor, Dean, University College; A.B., 1959, Princeton University; A.M.T., 1961, Harvard University; Ph.D., 1968, University of Michigan STEPHEN A. GUICE (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1981, M.A., 1983, Ph.D., 1990, Michigan State University KEVIN J. HAGOPIAN (1993) , Instructor: B.S., 1979, Illinois State University; M.A., 1982, University of Wisconsin at Madison TY E. HALE (1994) , Instructor: B.A., 1991, Oklahoma Christian University; M.A., 1993, Memphis State University CHARLES EDWARD HALL, JR. (1984) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1976, Oakland University; M.A., 1979, University of Florida; Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]Ph.D., 1983, University of Florida VIRGINIA PEARCE HUDGENS (1965) , Assistant Professor: B.A. 1959, Union University; M.A., 1963, University of Mississippi TERESA ROBERTS JOHNSON (1994) , Instructor: B.A. 1985, M.A., 1991, Memphis State University TAMMY RENEE JONES (1992) , Instructor: B.A., 1990, Delta State University; M.A., 1992, Memphis State University JANIS L. LANGE (1994) , Instructor: B.S., 1974, Indiana State University; M.A., 1990, Louisiana State University MARY SUE MACNEALY (1988) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1979, M.A., 1982, Ohio State University; Ph.D., 1988, Carnegie Mellon UniversityCATHERINE GIMELLI MARTIN (1990) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1970, Ph.D., 1989, University of California at Santa Cruz REGINALD MARTIN (1983) , Professor: B.S., 1977, Boston University; M.A., 1979, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1985, University of Tulsa BRUCE ALAN MAYLATH (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1980, Kalamazoo College; M.A., 1987, Michigan State University; Ph.D., 1994, University of Minnesota PATRICIA J. MEYERS (1993) , Instructor: B.A., 1980, M.A., 1989, University of Louisville; M.F.A., 1992, Memphis State University ELIZABETH FLOWERS MIDDLETON (1994) , Instructor: B.A., 1989, Millsaps College; M.A., 1993, University of Texas at Austin MARKESAN MORRISON (1965) , Instructor: B.A., 1959, Rhodes College; M.A., 1962, University of Mississippi PAUL KENNETH NAYLOR (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1979, Westminster College; M.A., 1982, Utah State University; Ph.D., 1989, University of California at San Diego JAMES W. NEWCOMB (1972) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1963, M.A., 1965, Creighton University; Ph.D., 1974, University of Iowa WILLIAM H. O'DONNELL (1986) , Professor: B.A., 1962, University of Washington; M.A., 1969, Ph.D., 1971, Princeton University GORDON THOMAS OSING (1973) , Professor: B.S.E., 1962, Concordia Teachers College; M.S.E., 1971, Central Missouri State; M.F.A., 1973, University of Arkansas HENRY HALL PEYTON III (1967) , Professor: B.A., 1950, M.A., 1953, Baylor University; Ph.D., 1968, Brown University MARY ELLEN PITTS (1965) , Professor: B.S., 1960, Florence State College; M.A., 1962, Ph.D., 1985, University of Florida GENE ALAN PLUNKA (1983) , Professor: B.A., 1971, University of Maryland-Baltimore County; M.A., 1972, Ph.D., 1978, University of Maryland-College Park JOSEPH RAYMOND RILEY (1954) , Professor: B.S., 1949, Memphis State University; M.A., 1953, Ph.D., 1962, Vanderbilt University THOMAS LYON RUSSELL (1984) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1968, M.A., 1974, Ph.D., 1981, University of Kansas CHARLTON RYAN (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1967, University of Houston; M.A 1981, University of Texas--El Paso; Ph.D., 1990, University of Texas--Austin PHILLIP RYAN (1994) , Instructor: B.A., 1991, Union University; M.A 1993, Memphis State University SUSAN E. SCHECKEL (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.A. 1980, University of Arizona; Ph.D., 1991, University of California, Berkeley NASEEB SHAHEEN (1969) , Professor: B.A., 1962, American University of Beirut; M.A., 1965, Ph.D., 1969, University of California at Los Angeles BRETT E. SINGER (1993) , Assistant Professor: A.B., 1974, Vassar College; 1979, M.A., Stanford University BRUCE SPECK (1990) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1975, University of Northern Colorado; M.A., 1980, Wayne State (Nebraska); Ph.D., 1984, University of Nebraska LOUIS CHARLES STAGG (1962) , Professor: B.A., 1955, Louisiana College; M.A., 1957, Ph.D., 1963, University of Arkansas EMILY THRUSH (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1971, Duke University; M.A., 1979, University of Florida; Ph.D., 1990, Georgia State University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]CYNTHIA GRANT TUCKER (1967) , Professor: B.A., 1963, Denison University; Ph.D., 1967, University of lowa JENNIFER A. WAGNER (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1979, Ph.D., 1990, Yale University MARY JOAN WEATHERLY (1965) , Professor: B.A., 1957, M.A., 1960, Mississippi College; Ph.D., 1973, University of Alabama DANIEL RAY WILLBANKS (1965) , Professor: B.A., 1963, M.A., 1964, University of Alabama; Ph.D., 1973, University of Texas WILLIAM ROBERT WILLIAMS (1961) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1957, Lambuth College; M.A., 1961, Memphis State University HELEN M. WUSSOW (1989) , Associate Professor: B.A. 1982, Moorhead State University; M.A., 1988, Ph.D., 1989, University of OxfordFOREIGN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES RALPH ALBANESE , Ph.D., Chair RALPH ALBANESE (1990) , Professor, Chair: B.A., 1966, M.A., 1968, Queens College; Ph.D., 1972, Yale University FERNANDO BURGOS (1981) , Associate Professor of Spanish: B.S., 1970, M.A., 1973, University of Chile; Ph.D., 1980, University of Florida JEFFERY L. BURKHART (1994) , Instructor of French: B.A., 1970, Allegheny College; M.A., 1972, Ph.D., 1980, University of Wisconsin-Madison LEO A. CONNOLLY (1975) , Professor of German and Linguistics: B.A., 1963, Seton Hall University; M.A., 1970, Ph.D., 1973, New York University CHERYL ANNE COX (1984) , Assistant Professor of Classics: B.A., 1976, York University, Toronto, Canada; Ph.D., 1983, Duke UniversityMARTINE DANAN (1993) , Instructor of French: B.A., 1974, M.A., 1975, 1990, University of Rouen MARY JANE FENWICK (1976) , Associate Professor of Spanish: B.A., 1962, Indiana University; M.A., 1971, Ph.D., 1979, University of Minnesota JOSE LUIS FREIRE (1975) , Associate Professor of Spanish and Linguistics: B.A., 1961, Orense, Spain; M.A., 1969, M.A., 1970, University of Northern lowa; Ph.D., 1975, University of Michigan SHARON HARWOOD-GORDON (1972) , Professor of French and Italian: B.A., 1966, M.A., 1967, Memphis State University; M.A., 1972, Ph.D., 1973, Tulane University STELLA JENSEN-SMALLEY (1994) , Instructor of Spanish: B.A., 1988, Universidad Nacional de San Juan; M.A., 1993, Memphis State University SUSAN M. JOHNSON (1985) , Associate Professor of French: B.A., 1973, University of Chicago; M.A., 1975, Michigan State University; M.L.S., 1983, Ph.D., 1983, Indiana University FELIPE-ANTONIO LAPUENTE (1970) , Professor of Spanish: B.A., 1957, M.A., 1959, University of Madrid; Ph.D., 1967, St. Louis UniversityFRANK B. MERRILL (1992) , Assistant Professor of Spanish: B.A., 1985, M.A., 1988, Ph.D., 1992, University of Illinois--Urbana- Champaign SANDRA D. MERRILL (1993) , Instructor of Spanish: B.A., 1984, Universidad Industrial de Santander; M.A., 1989, Ph.D., 1992, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign MONIKA NENON (1993) , Assistant Professor of German: M.A., 1983, Ph.D., 1987, University of Freiburg, Germany RAYMONDE MARTHA NIEL (1969) , Assistant Professor of French: B.A., 1965, Montclair State College; M.S., 1966, Oklahoma State University; M.A., 1969, M. Phil.,1975, Ph.D., 1977, University of Kansas H. DWIGHT PAGE (1993) , Instructor of French: B.A., 1975, Davidson College; M.A., 1976, Ph.D., 1978, Harvard University NICHOLAS WILLIAM ROKAS (1969) , Associate Professor of Spanish: B.A., 1957, Texas Christian University; M.A., 1961, University of Oklahoma; Ph.D., 1972, University of Missouri Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]DAVID L. SIGSBEE (1976) , Associate Professor of Classics: B.A., 1960, Concordia Senior College, Ft. Wayne, Indiana; M.A., 1961, Ph.D., 1968, University of Michigan ROBERT VICTOR SMYTHE (1963) , Assistant Professor of German: B.A., 1962, Memphis State University; M.A., 1963, Ph.D., 1980, University of Texas WILLIAM THOMPSON (1989) , Assistant Professor of French: B.A., 1983, M.A., 1984, McMaster University, Canada; Ph.D., 1989, Cornell University ANTONIO TORRES-ALCALA (1987) , Associate Professor of Spanish: Licenciado, Universidad de Barcelona, 1965; M.A., 1969, Ph.D., 1974, Catholic University of America ALBERT WATANABE (1993) , Instructor of Classics: B.A., 1978, St. Mary's College; M.A., 1982, University of California-Santa Barbara; Ph.D., 1988, University of Illinois-Champaign-Urbana DAVID GORDON WILSON (1988) , Assistant Professor of Russian: B.A., 1973, University of Missouri; M.A., 1984, Ph.D., 1986, University of Kansas GEOGRAPHY AND PLANNING HSIANG-TE KUNG , Ph.D., Chair REZA BANAI (1983) , Professor: B.Arch., 1973, Miami University; M.Arch., 1975, Virginia Polytechnic Institute; Ph.D., 1983, University of Pennsylvania MELVIN C. BARBER (1959) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1958, Memphis State University; M.A., 1959, Vanderbilt University; Ph.D., 1971, Southern Illinois University LUZ de SELENIA BURRELL (1977) , Assistant Professor: B.B.A., 1968, University of Puerto Rico; M.P., 1970, University of Puerto RicoCLIFTON V.DIXON (1986) , Associate Professor and Coordinator for International Relations: B.S.,1976, M.A. 1980, Louisiana State University; Ph.D. 1988, Texas A & M University HOWARD EDWARD FRYE (1955) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1951, Eastern Michigan University; M.A., 1954, University of Michigan DELVIN S. FUNG (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1979, University of Sciences, Malaysia; M.A., 1987, Ph.D., 1993, University of GeorgiaSCOTT W. KIRSCH (1989) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1981, M.S., 1983, M.A., 1984, Indiana University; Ph.D., 1989, University of IllinoisHSIANG-TE KUNG (1981) , Professor, Chair: B.S., 1968, University of Chinese Culture; M.S., 1972, Ph.D., 1980, University of Tennessee, Knoxville JOHN A. KUPFER (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1988, Valparaiso University; M.A., 1991, Ph.D., 1994, University of Iowa W. THEODORE MEALOR, JR. (1978) , Professor: B.A., 1962, University of Florida; M.A., 1964, Ph.D., 1972, University of Georgia GENE PEARSON (1971) , Associate Professor; Director of Graduate Program in City and Regional Planning; B.P.A., 1966, M.U.R.P., 1971, University ot Mississippi SUSAN L. ROAKES (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1981, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University; M.S.P., 1987, University of Tennessee-Knoxville, Ph.D., 1991, University of Wisconsin-Madison CHARLES T. TRAYLOR (1979) , Associate Professor: B.S. 1969, M.S., 1971, University of Alabama; Ph.D., 1979, University of KansasGEOLOGICAL SCIENCES PHILI B. DEBOO , Ph.D., Chair PAUL BODIN (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1975, University of California-San Diego; M.S., 1980, Humboldt State University; Ph.D., 1992, University of Colorado JER-MING CHIU (1982) , Professor: B.S., 1971, National Taiwan Normal University; M.S., 1974, National Central University, Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]Taiwan; Ph.D., 1982, Cornell University WAI-YING CHUNG (1986) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1970, National Taiwan Normal University; M.S., 1972, National Central University-Taiwan; Ph.D., 1978, California Institute of Technology PHILI B. DEBOO (1965) , Professor, Chair: B.S., 1953, St. Xavier's College; M.S., 1955, Ph.D., 1963, Louisiana State University JAMES DORMAN (1987) , Professor, Director, Center for Earthquake Research and Information: B.A., 1949, Carlton College; M.S., 1951, Northwestern University; Ph.D., 1961, Columbia University MICHAEL A. ELLIS (1990) , Associate Professor: B.Sc., 1977, University College of Swansea, U.K.; Ph.D., 1984, Washington State UniversityJOAN GOMBERG (1994) , Adjunct Professor: B.S., 1980, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Ph.D., 1986, University of California-San Diego ARCHIBALD C. JOHNSTON (1978) , Professor: B.S., 1967, Rhodes College; Ph.D., 1978, University of Colorado DAVID NORMAN LUMSDEN (1967) , Professor: B.A., 1958, M.A., 1960, State University of New York at Buffalo; Ph.D., 1965, University of Illinois JOSE PUJOL (1985) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1968, Universidad del Sur, Argentina; M.S., 1982, University of Alaska; Ph.D., 1985, University of Wyoming PAUL A. RYDELEK (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1971, University of Buffalo; M.S., 1973, University of Illinois; M.S., 1977, Ph.D., 1984, U.C.L.A. EUGENE S. SCHWEIG (1985) , Adjunct Professor: B.S., 1975, University of Missouri; M.S., 1983, Ph.D., 1985, Stanford University ROBERT SMALLEY, JR. (1987) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1975, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; M.S., 1978, Ph.D., 1988, Cornell University GEORGE H. SWIHART (1988) , Associate Professor: A.B, 1979, Colby College; M.S, 1981, University of lowa; Ph.D., 1987, University of Chicago ROY B. VAN ARSDALE (1993) , Professor: B.A., 1972, Rutgers University; M.S., 1974, University of Cincinnati; Ph.D., 1979, University of Utah HISTORYFORREST JACK HURLEY , Ph.D., Chair CALVIN H. ALLEN, JR. (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1971, University of Pittsburgh; M.A., 1974, University of Washington; Ph.D., 1978, University of Washington JAMES M. BLYTHE (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1968, M.A., 1972, Penn State University; M.A., 1982, Ph.D., 1987, Cornell University WALTER ROBERT BROWN (1965) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1962, Millsaps College; M.A., 1963, Ph.D., 1973, Emory University LINNEA G. BURWOOD (1990) , Instructor: B.A., 1984; M.A., 1986, SUNY Binghamton MARGARET M. CAFFREY (1988) , Assistant Professor: B.A.1969, College Misericordia; M.A., 1979, Ph.D., 1986, University of Texas JAMES ROBERT CHUMNEY, JR. (1965) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1957, Memphis State University; M.A., 1961, Trinity University; Ph.D., 1964, Rice University DALVAN M. COGER (1965) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1960, University of Maryland; M.A., 1965, Ph.D., 1970, University of South Carolina CHARLES WANN CRAWFORD (1962) , Professor: B.A., 1953, Harding College; M.A., 1958, University of Arkansas; Ph.D. 1968, University of Mississippi MAURICE A. CROUSE (1962) , Professor: B.S., 1956, Davidson College; M A., 1957, Ph.D., 1964, Northwestern University DONALD W. ELLIS (1970) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1955, Oklahoma City University; M.A., 1958, University of Oklahoma; Ph.D., 1970, University of Kansas Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]JAMES EDWARD FICKLE (1968) , Professor: B.S., 1961, Purdue University; M.A., 1963, Ph.D., 1970, Louisiana State University CHRISTOPHER E. FORTH (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1989, Niagara University; M.A., 1992, Ph.D., 1994, SUNY Buffalo ROBERT J. FRANKLE (1970) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1963, St. Olaf College; M.A., 1965, Ph.D., 1970, University of Wisconsin WILLIAM R. GILLASPIE (1961) , Professor: B.A., 1952, Westminster College; M.A., 1954, University of Missouri; Ph.D., 1961, University of Florida KENNETH W. GOINGS (1995) , Professor: B.S., 1972, Kent State University; M.A., 1974, Ph.D., 1977, Princeton University JOSEPH M. HAWES (1984) , Professor: A.B., 1960, Rice University; M.A., 1962, Oklahoma State University; Ph.D., 1969, University of Texas FORREST JACK HURLEY (1966) , Professor, Chair: B.A., 1962, Austin College; M.A., 1966, Ph.D., 1971, Tulane University BERKLEY KALIN (1966) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1956, Washington University; M.A., 1960, Ph.D., 1967, St Louis University ABRAHAM DAVID KRIEGEL (1964) , Professor: B.A., 1958, Hunter College; M.A., 1960, Ph.D., 1965, Duke University KELL FREEMAN MITCHELL, JR. (1963) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1957, M.A., 1960, Ph.D., 1966, University of Georgia WILLIAM JOSEPH MURNANE, JR. (1987) , Professor: B.A., 1966, St. Anselm's College; M.A. 1968, Ph.D., 1973, University of Chicago JANANN M. SHERMAN (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1985, The School of the Ozarks; M.A., 1990, Ph.D., 1993, Rutgers University CARL EDWARD SKEEN (1968) , Professor: B.S., 1959, Ohio University; M.A., 1960, Ph.D., 1966, Ohio State University LUNG-KEE SUN (1986) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1967, M.A. 1970, National Taiwan University; M.A., 1976, University of Minnesota; Ph.D., 1984, Stanford University DAVID MILTON TUCKER (1965) , Professor: B.A., 1959, College of the Ozarks; M.A., 1961, Oklahoma State University; Ph.D., 1965, University of lowa MAJOR LOYCE WILSON (1964) , Professor: B.A., 1950, Vanderbilt University; M.A., 1953, University of Arkansas; Ph.D. 1964, University of Kansas MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES E. O. GEORGE , Ph.D., Interim Chair GEORGE A. ANASTASSIOU (1986) , Professor: B.A., 1975, University of Athens, Greece; M.A., 1981, Ph.D., 1984, University of Rochester THOMAS J. BARTON (1984) , Associate Professor: M.A., 1980, Ph.D., 1984, Kent State University MARIA F. BOTELHO (1988) , Associate Professor: M.S., 1980, University of Porto; Ph.D., 1988, University of California, Berkeley SAM RAYMOND BROOKS (1966) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1962, M.A., 1964, Ph.D., 1969, University of Texas CAROLYN CAMPBELL (1968) , Instructor: B.S., 1966, M.S., 1968, Memphis State University JAMES T. CAMPBELL (1984) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1978, Georgia Institute of Technology; M.S., 1982, Ph.D., University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill THOMAS RAY CAPLINGER (1964) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1961, Hendrix College; M.S., 1962, Florida State University; Ph.D., 1972, University of Mississippi ALICE CROW (1994) , Instructor: B.A., 1992, Vanderbilt University; M.S., 1994, University of North Carolina GAUTAM DAS (1990) , Assistant Professor: B. Tech., 1983, Institute of Technology, Kanpur, India; Ph.D., 1990, University of Wisconsin-Madison LIH-YUAN DENG (1984) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1975, M.S., 1977, National Taiwan University; M.S. 1979, Purdue University; Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]M.S., 1982, Ph.D., 1984, University of Wisconsin-Madison PAUL ERDOS (1979) , Adjunct Professor: Ph.D., 1933, University of Budapest RALPH J. FAUDREE, JR. (1971) , Professor, Chair: B.S., 1961, Oklahoma Baptist University; M.S., 1963, Ph.D., 1964, Purdue UniversitySTANLEY PHILLIP FRANKLIN (1972) , Professor: B.S. 1959, Memphis State University; M.S., 1962, Ph.D., 1963, University of California at Los Angeles MAXIMILIANO H. GARZON (1984) , Associate Professor: M.S., 1980, Ph.D., 1984, University of Illinois at Urbana EBENEZER O. GEORGE (1983) , Professor, Interim Chair: B.A., 1968, Harvard University; M.S., 1972, University of Illinois; Ph.D., 1977, University of Rochester JOHN R. HADDOCK (1970) , Professor, Interim Dean, College of Arts and Sciences: B.A., 1966, M.S., 1968, Ph.D., 1970, Southern Illinois University YINXI HUANG (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1982, M.S., 1984, Southwestern Jiaotong University, PR China; Ph.D., 1989, University of Alberta, Canada VIRGINIA HUBBARD (1994) , Instructor: B.A., 1992, M.S., 1994, University of Mississippi JAMES E. JAMISON (1970) , Professor: B.S., 1965, M.S., 1967, Ph.D., 1970, University of Missouri (Rolla) SUMEDHA JAYAWARDENE (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.S.,1983, University of Colombo, Sri Lanka; M.S., 1985, Purdue University; Ph.D., 1991, Kansas State University ANNA H. KAMINSKA (1989) , Associate Professor: M.S., 1973, Ph.D., 1978, Doctor habilitatus, 1986, A. Mickiewicz University, Ponznan, Poland ANTONY KONG (1982) , Adjunct Professor: B.S., 1973, lowa State University; Ph.D., 1977, University of Illinois at Urbana PEI-KEE LIN (1986) , Professor: B.S., 1973 Tsing Hua University; M.S., 1981, Ph.D., 1980, Ohio State University HUGH LANSDEN McHENRY (1968) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1960, Tennessee Technological University; M.A., 1961, Ph.D., 1970, Vanderbilt University GERHARD METZEN (1984) , Associate Professor: B.Sc., 1978, Concordia University; M.Math., 1979, University of Waterloo; Ph.D., 1984, University of California at Santa Cruz SUSAN J. MILITELLO (1993) , Instructor: B.A., 1986, SUNY at Cortland; M.A., 1991, SUNY at Binghamton HUBERT LEE MINTON, JR. (1965) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1955, M.A., 1961, University of Texas GIRI NARASIMHAN (1989) , Assistant Professor: B.T.E.E., 1982, Institute of Technology, Bombay, India; Ph.D., 1989, University of Wisconsin-Madison EDWARD T. ORDMAN (1983) , Associate Professor: A.B., 1964, Kenyon College; A.M., 1966, Ph.D., 1969, Princeton University CECIL C. ROUSSEAU (1970) , Professor: B.S.,1960, Lamar State College of Technology; M.S., 1962, Ph.D., 1968, Texas A&M UniversityPAUL RYBURN (1994) , Instructor: B.A.,1991, Rhodes College; M.S., 1994, University of Memphis RICHARD H. SCHELP (1970) , Professor: B.S., 1959, Central Missouri State College; M.S., 1961, Ph.D., 1970, Kansas State University WILLIAM R. SCHMITT (1989) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1982, University of Vermont; Ph.D., 1986, Massachusetts Institute of TechnologyWAI-YUAN TAN (1975) , Research Professor: B.S., 1956, Provincial College, Taiwan; M.S., 1959, National Taiwan University; M.S., 1963, Ph.D., 1964, University of Wisconsin PAUL B. TROW (1987) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1978, Carleton College; Ph.D., 1985, University of North Carolina DAVID M. VAUGHT (1969) , Professor: B.S., 1949, Rhodes College; Ph.D., 1964, University of Utah Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]SEOK PIN WONG (1965) , Professor: M.S., 1962, University of Delaware; Ph.D., 1967, University of Illinois MILITARY SCIENCE CHARLES S. BRENNAMAN , M.S.,Professor of Military Science CHARLES S. BRENNAMAN (1993) , Major, United States Army; Professor of Military Sciences: B.A., 1978, Mercer University; M.S., 1989, Troy State University KYLE T. FUGATE (1993) , Captain, United States Army; Assistant Professor of Military Science: B.S., 1987, East Tennessee State University JULIAN A. KELLMAN (1994) , Master Sergeant, United States Army, Chief Instructor MARC D. KINNEY (1993) , Sergeant, United States Army; Supply Sergeant CURTIS J. RICHARDSON (1993) , Staff Sergeant, United States Army; Chief Administrative Non-Commissioned Officer: B.S., 1992, Wayland Baptist University; A.A., 1987, University of Maryland FRANCIS P. TIERNEY (1992) , Master Sergeant, United States Army; Senior Instructor JEFFREY D. WILLIAMSON (1993) , Captain, United States Army; Assistant Professor of Military Science: B.S., 1985, Memphis State University NAVAL SCIENCE JERRY W. KAHLER , M.A. Professor of Naval Science STEVEN M. BROCKWAY (1994) , Storekeeper First Class, United States Navy, Unit Storekeeper RANDALL R. DECKER (1992) , Lieutenant, United States Naval Reserve; Assistant Professor of Naval Science: B.S., 1987, Southwestern Oklahoma State University PAUL K. DLUZENSKI (1994) , Major, United States Marine Corps; Assistant Professor of Naval Science: B.S., 1977, St. Johns UniversityRUBEN V. GAVIERES (1994) , Lieutenant, United States Navy; Assistant Professor of Naval Science: B.S., 1987, United States Naval Academy JERRY W. KAHLER (1992) , Colonel, United States Marine Corps; Professor of Naval Science: B.S., 1970, Mississippi State University; M.A., 1976, Pepperdine University; M.S., 1989, Naval War College, Newport, Rhode Island JOHN F. MAGGIPINTO (1993) , Gunnery Sergeant, United States Marine Corps; Drill Instructor WARREN C. SEARBY (1993) , Chief Petty Officer, United States Navy; Administrative Officer ANDREW E. SELIGA (1993) , Lieutenant, United States Navy; Assistant Professor of Naval Science: B.S., 1988, Virginia Military InstitutePHILIP D. WARD (1994) , Commander, United States Navy; Associate Professor of Naval Science: B.S., 1971, University of Washington; M.S., 1980, Naval Postgraduate School PHILOSOPHYNANCY SIMCO , Ph.D., Chair ROBERT L. BERNASCONI (1988) , Moss Professor of Philosophy: B.A., 1972, Ph.D., 1982, Sussex University TINA CHANTER (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1981, University of Essex; M.A., 1985, University of Sheffield; Ph.D., 1987, State University of New York, Stony Brook JOHN O. ELLIS (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1983, University of North Carolina; Ph.D., 1992, King's College London DAVID K. HENDERSON (1991) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1979, M.A., 1982, Wichita State University; M.A., 1985, Ph.D., 1985, Washington University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]TERENCE E. HORGAN (1981) , Professor: B.A., 1970, Stanford University; Ph.D., 1974, University of Michigan GENE G. JAMES (1964) , Professor: B.A., 1959, Wake Forest University; Ph.D., 1969, University of North Carolina LEONARD LAWLOR (1989) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1978, Eastern Michigan University; Ph.D., 1988, State University of New York, Stony Brook THOMAS NENON (1985) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1972, Regis College; M.A., 1974, Boston College; Ph.D., 1983, University of FreiburgHOKE ROBINSON (1981) , Associate Professor: B.A. 1969, George Washington University; M.A. 1971, University of Texas; Ph.D., 1978, State University of New York, Stony Brook TIMOTHY ROCHE (1985) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1974, Washington and Lee University; M.A., 1980, Ph.D., 1984, University of California-Davis NANCY DAVIS SIMCO (1966) , Professor, Chair: B.A., 1962, M.A., 1965, Ph.D., 1969, University of Kansas JOHN L. TIENSON (1987) , Professor: B.A. 1963, University of California, Berkeley; M.A., 1966, Ph.D., 1970, University of Illinois, UrbanaMARK TIMMONS (1989) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1973, University of Evansville; M.A., 1975, Arizona State University; Ph.D., 1982, University of Nebraska PHYSICSMICHAEL M. GARLAND , Ph.D., Chair B. N. NARAHARI ACHAR (1984) , Professor: B.Sc., 1960, Mysore University, India; M.S., 1965, Ph.D., 1968, Pennsylvania State University MILAN BUNCICK (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1978, Appalachian State University; Ph.D., 1987, University of Tennessee DONALD R. FRANCESCHETTI (1979) , Professor: B.S., 1969, Brooklyn College of the City University of New York; M.A., 1971, Ph.D., 1974, Princeton University MICHAEL McKEE GARLAND (1965) , Professor, Chair: B.A., 1961, Austin Peay State University; Ph.D., 1965, Clemson University JOHN W. HANNEKEN (1979) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1971, Ohio University; M.S., 1974, University of Houston; M.A., 1977, Ph.D., 1979, Rice University M. SHAH JAHAN (1980) , Professor: B.S. 1963, M.S., 1964, Rajshadi University (Bangladesh); Ph.D., 1977, The University of Alabama D. WAYNE JONES (1969) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1960, Memphis State University; M.S., 1962, Ph.D., 1966, University of Virginia ROBERT RIGGS MARCHINI (1968) , Professor: B.S., 1962, DePaul University; Ph.D., 1969, Clemson University LEWIS B. O'KELLY (1962) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1957, Memphis State University; M.S., 1960, Vanderbilt University DAVID L. PRICE (1989) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1978, State University of New York Brockport; Ph.D., 1986, University of MinnesotaCECIL G. SHUGART (1977) , Professor: B.A., 1957, North Texas State University; M.A., 1961, Ph.D., 1968, University of Texas at AustinPOLITICAL SCIENCE KENNETH M. HOLLAND , Ph.D., Chair THOMAS J. BARTH (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1977, University of Notre Dame; M.A., 1981, University of Chicago; Ph.D., 1990, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University GLENN CHAFETZ (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1985, M.A., 1987, Ph.D., 1991, University of Virginia Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]JOY A. CLAY (1990) , Assistant Professor: R.N., 1968, Illinois Masonic Hospital School of Nursing; B.A. 1971, University of Washington; M.A., 1974, Loyola University; Ph.D., 1991, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University DAVID N. COX (1978) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1965, Ball State University; M.A., 1968, University of Queensland, Australia; Ph.D., 1977. Indiana University MARK R. DANIELS (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1973, Valparaiso University; M.A., 1975, Southern Illinois University- Carbondale; Ph.D., 1979, University of Georgia PATRICK J. FETT (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1983, University of Iowa; M.A., 1987, Ph.D., 1990, University of Rochester KENNETH M. HOLLAND (1991) , Professor, Chair: B.A., 1970, Furman University; M.A, 1971, University of Virginia; Ph.D., 1978, University of Chicago J. HARVEY LOMAX (1977) , Associate Professor: B.A. 1970, Furman University; M.A., 1973, Ph.D., 1979, University of Chicago HARRY RICHARD MAHOOD (1964) , Professor: B.A., 1951, M.A., 1952, University of Oklahoma; Ph.D., 1960, University of Illinois WILLIAM R. MARTY (1965) , Professor: B.A., 1960, University of Oklahoma; M.A., 1964, Ph.D., 1968, Duke University T. DAVID MASON (1992) , Professor: B.A., 1973, M.A., 1978, Ph.D., 1982, University of Georgia DOROTHY NORRIS-TIRRELL (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1978, Harding University; M.S.W., 1980, University of Arkansas at Little Rock; Ph.D., 1992, Florida International University ROBIN QUINN (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1986, Northern Michigan University; M.S., 1989, Ph.D., 1992, Memphis State University WINSOR CHASE SCHMIDT (1986) , Professor: A.B., 1970, Harvard University; J.D., 1973, The American University; LL.M., 1984, University of Virginia CAROLE FRANK SOUTHERLAND (1974) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1959, University of Dubuque; M.A., 1970, Ph.D., 1974, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee PSYCHOLOGYANDREW W. MEYERS , Ph.D., Chair JEFFREY S. BERMAN (1985) , Professor: B.A., 1972, Reed College; A.M., 1976, Ph.D., 1979, Harvard University JOHN LAURENCE BERNARD (1967) , Professor: B.A., 1958, M.A., 1959, Ph.D., 1962, University of Alabama; J.D., 1979, Memphis State University BRUCE ALBERT BRACKEN (1986) , Professor: B.A. 1975, College of Charleston; M.A., 1977, Ph.D., 1979, University of Georgia ROBERT COHEN (1976) , Professor: B.A., 1970, University of Virginia; M.A., 1972, Ph.D., 1975, Miami University (Ohio) WILLIAM ORRINGTON DWYER (1969) , Professor: B.A., 1964, Co!lege of Wooster; M.A., 1968, Ph.D., 1969, Southern Illinois UniversityTHOMAS KEVIN FAGAN (1976) , Professor: B.S.Ed., 1965, M.A., 1966, Ph.D., 1969, Kent State University J. BARRY GHOLSON (1974) , Professor B.A., 1964, Kent State University; M.A., 1967, Ph.D., 1968, University of lowa ARTHUR C. GRAESSER (1985) , Professor: B.A., 1972, Florida State University; Ph.D., 1977, University of California-San Diego DAVID A. HOUSTON (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1975, Northwestern University; J.D., 1980, Ph.D., 1989, Indiana University XIANGEN HU (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1982, M.S., 1985, Huazhong University; M.A., 1991, Ph.D., 1993, University of California, Irvine ARTHUR CANTRELL HOUTS (1981) , Professor: B.A., 1970, Hampden-Sydney College; M.A., 1979, Ph.D., 1981, State University of New York at Stony Brook PRABHA KHANNA (1969) , Professor: B.A., 1945, Kinniard College (Lahore, India); M.A., 1948, Punjab University (Lahore); Ph.D., 1957, University of Colorado Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]ROBERT C. KLESGES (1985) , Professor: B.A., 1976, Pepperdine University; M.S., 1978, Ph.D., 1980, University of Wyoming ROGER JAMES KREUZ (1988) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1983, University of Toledo; M.A., 1985, Ph.D., 1987, Princeton UniversityFRANK CRAGG LEEMING (1963) , Professor: B.S., 1958, University of Illinois; M.A., 1961, Ph.D., 1963, University of Mississippi KENNETH LAWRENCE LICHSTEIN (1976) , Professor: B.B.A., 1968, City College of New York; Ph.D., 1976, University of TennesseeCHARLES JOSEPH LONG (1967) , Professor: B.S., 1960, M.A., 1962, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1966, Vanderbilt University MICHAEL BURKE LUPFER (1964) , Professor: B.S., 1959, Rhodes College; M.S., 1963, Ph.D., 1964, University of Miami (Florida) SHIRLEY LAND LUPFER (1963) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1959, Coker College; M.A., 1961, Vanderbilt University WILLIAM MARKS (1986) , Associate Professor: San Francisco State University; M.A., 1977, Ph.D., 1983, University of California- DavisANDREW WILLIAM MEYERS (1976) , Professor, Chair: B.A., 1970, University of Rochester; M.S., 1972, Ph.D., 1974, Pennsylvania State University GUY MITTLEMAN (1990) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1978, M.S., 1981, Ph.D., 1985, University of Michigan SAM BURGE MORGAN (1978) , Professor: B.S., 1959, Memphis State University; M.A., 1962, Ph.D., 1964, University of Arkansas ROBERT ALLEN NEIMEYER (1983) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1976, University of Florida; Ph.D., 1982, University of Nebraska NAFTALI RAZ (1989) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1979, Hebrew University; Ph.D., 1985, University of Texas at Austin SARAH RAZ (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1974, Hebrew University; M.A., 1985, Ph.D., 1988, University of Texas at Austin MARIE A. SELL (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1983, M.A., 1986, Ph.D., 1989, University of Kansas WILLIAM RAYMOND SHADISH, JR. (1981) , Professor: B.A., 1972, SantaClara University; M.S., 1975, Ph.D., 1978, Purdue University PAUL D. SKJOLDAGER (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1980, M.A., 1987, Mankato State University; Ph.D., 1989, The University of Mississippi JEANNETTE POOLE WARD (1967) , Professor: A.B., 1963, Birmingham-Southern College; Ph.D., 1969, Vanderbilt University JAMES P. WHELAN (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1980, LaSalle College; M.A., 1983, Ph.D., 1989, Memphis State University SOCIOLOGY AND SOCIAL WORK REBECCA F. GUY , Ph.D., Chair CAROLYN JUNIOR BRYANT (1989) , Assistant Professor: B.A. 1975, University of Montevallo; M.S.S.W., 1976, University of Louisville BETTY DAWSON (1976) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1965, Louisiana College; M.S.S.W., 1970, University of Louisville; Ed.D., 1986, Memphis State University GREGORY V. DONNENWERTH (1974) , Professor: B.A., 1965, Buena Vista College; M.A., 1966, University of South Dakota; Ph.D., 1971, University of Missouri GRAVES E. ENCK (1974) , Associate Professor: B.A. 1961, North Texas State University; M.A., 1968, Texas Christian University; Ph.D., 1975, Yale University J. REX ENOCH (1969) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1959, Union University; M.A., 1960, University of Arkansas; Ph.D., 1965, University of Texas REBECCA F. GUY (1971) , Professor, Chair: B.A., 1968, Phillips University; M.A., 1970, Ph.D., 1971, Oklahoma State University ELIZABETH S. HIGGINBOTHAM (1985) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1971, City College of the City University of New York; M.A., 1975, Ph.D., 1980, Brandeis University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]JERRY B. MICHEL (1970) , Professor: B.A., 1954, Texas A&M University; M.A., 1960, Texas Christian University; Ph.D., 1964, University of Texas LARRY R. PETERSEN (1977) , Professor: B.A., 1972, M.A., 1974, Ph.D., 1977, Washington State University JAMES D. PRESTON (1971) , Professor: B.S., 1962, Middle Tennessee State University; M.A., 1964, Ph.D., 1967, Mississippi State UniversityCAROL RAMBO RONAI (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1986, M.A., 1987, Ph.D., 1993, University of Florida K. PETER TAKAYAMA (1967) , Professor: B.A., 1954, Tokyo Kyoiku University; M.A., 1961, Fordham University; Ph.D., 1971, Southern Illinois University NELLIE P. TATE (1994) , Professor of Social Work, Director: A.B., 1957, LeMoyne-Owen College; M.S.S.W., 1969; Ph.D., 1981, Brandeis University LYNET UTTAL (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1980, Ph.D., 1993, University of California at Santa Cruz JOSEPH C. VENTIMIGLIA (1981) , Associate Professor: B.A. 1967, M.A., 1968, Indiana University; Ph.D., 1973, University of WisconsinLYNN W. WEBER (1976) , Professor: B.A., 1971, M.A., 1973, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1976, University of Illinois THE FOGELMAN COLLEGE OF BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS DONNA M. RANDALL , Ph.D., Dean of The Fogelman College of Business and Economics HERMAN F. PATTERSON , Ed.D., Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies IRENE DUHAIME , Ph.D., Interim Associate Dean for Graduate Studies ROBERT L. BERL , Ph.D., Associate Dean tor External Affairs POLLY FADGEN , Graduation Analyst CAROLYN J. HANNAN , M.Ed., Coordinator Graduate and Executive Training CYNTHIA W. LAND , M.Ed., Assistant to the Dean for Undergraduate Advising WAYNE PODGORSKI, M.B.A., Coordinator, Intern Program SCHOOL OF ACCOUNTANCY KENNETH R. AUSTIN , D.B.A., C.P.A., Director, School of Accountancy SURENDRA P. AGRAWAL (1982) , Professor: B.Com. 1954, LL.B., 1957, Agra University; M.A., 1971, Ph.D., 1973, University of Florida; C.PA., 1981, Ohio; F.C.A., India; C.M.A., 1985 KENNETH R. AUSTIN (1988) , Professor: B.S., 1973, Ohio State University; M.S., 1975, D.B.A., 1979, University of Kentucky; C.P.A., 1981, Ohio M. FRANK BARTON, JR. (1977) , Professor: B.S., 1949, University of Tennessee; M.B.A., 1970, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1975, University of Mississippi; C.P.A., 1972, Tennessee MARIE E. DUBKE (1967) , Professor: B.A., 1950, M.B.A., 1955, State University of New York at Buffalo; Ph.D., 1961, Michigan State University; C.P.A., 1960, Michigan, 1968, Tennessee LARRY DUCHARME (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1979, M.B.A., 1989, Ph.D., 1994, University of Washington RONALD H. EATON (1976) , Associate Professor: B.B.A. 1962, M.B.A., 1967, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1972, University of Arkansas; C.P.A., 1967, Tennessee, 1974, Texas KENNETH R. LAMBERT (1982) , Associate Professor: B.S.B.A. 1968, Southeast Missouri State University; M.B.A., 1972, Ph.D. 1976, University of Arkansas CRAIG J. LANGSTRAAT (1987) , Professor: B.S., 1972, Arizona State University; J.D., 1978, Arizona State University College of Law; LL.M., 1982, University of San Diego School of Law; C.P.A., 1974, Arizona JAMES M. LUKAWITZ (1989) , Assistant Professor: B S, 1983, Ph.D., 1989, Florida State University; C.P.A., 1985, Florida JOHN M. MALLOY (1988) , Professor: B.B.A., 1961, M.B.A., 1966, Southern Methodist University; Ph.D., 1970, Louisiana State University; J.D., 1974, Salmon P. Chase School of Law of North Kentucky University; C.P.A., 1965, Texas; Member of Ohio Bar, 1974 Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]RAM K. MANGAL (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1979, M.B.A., 1980, Indian Institute of Management; Ph.D., 1993, Ohio State UniversityPETER L. McMICKLE (1978) , Professor: B.B.A. 1967, Memphis State University; M.A., 1969; Ph.D., 1977, University of Alabama; C.P.A., 1970, Tennessee GEORGE S. MINMIER (1976) , Professor: B.S.B.A., 1956, University of Arkansas; M.B.A., 1963, Southern Methodist University; Ph.D., 1974, University of Arkansas; C.P.A., 1978, Tennessee, C.M A., 1978 PATRICIA MYERS (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1976, C.P.A., 1978, University of Arizona MICHAEL SHIELDS (1994) , Professor, Arthur Andersen Chair of Excellence: B.A., 1973, M.B.A., 1975, Washington State University; Ph.D., 1978, University of Pittsburgh J. DAVID SPICELAND (1981) , Professor: B.S., 1971, University of Tennessee; M.B.A., 1972, Southern Illinois University; Ph.D. 1976, University of Arkansas; C.P.A., 1975, Arkansas, 1976, Louisiana ROBERT B. SWEENEY (1983) , Professor, Thompson-Hill Chair of Excellence in Accountancy: B.B.A., 1951, M.B.A., 1953, Ph.D., 1960, University of Texas; C.P.A., 1959, Texas KAY ZEKANY (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1979, M.A.C.C., 1986, Miami University; Ph.D., 1994, The University of South Carolina; C.M.A., 1988 ECONOMICSROSE M. RUBIN , Ph.D., Chair CYRIL F. CHANG (1981) , Professor: B.A., 1969, National Chenchi University; M.A., 1972, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1979, University of Virginia DAVID H. CISCEL (1973) , Professor, Interim Dean, Graduate School: B.S., 1965, M.A., 1969, Ph.D., 1971, University of Houston COLDWELL DANIEL III (1970) , Professor: B.A., 1949, Tulane University; M.B.A., 1950, Indiana University, Ph.D., 1958, University of Virginia THOMAS ORLANDO DEPPERSCHMIDT (1966) , Professor: B.A., 1958, Fort Hays Kansas State College; Ph.D., 1965, University of Texas RICHARD DENMAN EVANS (1978) , Professor: A.B., 1970, M.A., 1971, Ph.D., 1974, University of Missouri K. K. FUNG (1975) , Professor: B.A., 1964, University of Hong Kong; Ph.D., 1970, Harvard University JOHN E. GNUSCHKE (1976) , Professor; Director, Center for Manpower Studies and Bureau of Business and Economic Research: B.S., 1969, Utah State University; M.A., 1971, Ph.D., 1975, University of Missouri MICHAEL J. GOOTZEIT (1975) , Professor: B.S., 1961, City College of New York; M.A., 1963, Ph.D., 1966, Purdue University DAVID M. KEMME (1994) , Shelby County Chair of Excellence in International Economics: B.A., 1973, Miami University; M.A., 1975, Ph.D., 1980, Ohio State University JULIA A. HEATH (1986) , Associate Professor: BA., 1978, Bluffton College; Ph.D., 1986, University of South Carolina ALBERT A. OKUNADE (1987) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1980; M.S., M.B.A., 1982, Wright State University; Ph.D., 1986, University of Arkansas V. LANE RAWLINS (1991) , Professor, President of the University: B.S., 1963, Brigham Young University; Ph.D., 1969, University of California, Berkeley JOHN JOSEPH REID (1966) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1955, University of Connecticut; Ph.D., 1962, University of Virginia JOHN E. ROGERS (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1981, Southwest Missouri State; M.A., 1983, University of Missouri; Ph.D., 1988, University of North Carolina ROSE M. RUBIN (1994) , Professor, Chair: B.A., 1961, Wellesley College; M.A., 1966, Emory University; Ph.D., 1986, Kansas State University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]WILLIAM SMITH (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1979, American College in Paris; M.A., 1981, University of Miami; Ph.D., 1987, University of Virginia DONALD ROGER WELLS (1967) , Professor: A.B., 1954, University of California at Los Angeles; M.B.A., 1961, Ph.D., 1965, University of Southern California SHELLEY I. WHITE--MEANS (1988) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1977, Grinnell College; M.A., 1979, Ph.D., 1983, Northwestern UniversityFINANCE, INSURANCE AND REAL ESTATE MARS PERTL , Ph.D., Chair M. E. BOND (1979) , Professor of Finance: B.B.A., 1961, M.A., 1965, Ph.D. 1967, University of lowa CHEN--CHIN CHU (1984) , Associate Professor of Finance: B.S., 1977, National Chiao Tung University; M.A.S., 1979, Ph.D., 1984, University of Illinois KEE H. CHUNG (1988) , Associate Professor of Finance: B.S. 1977, Han Yang University; M.S., 1979, The Korea Advanced Institute of Science, Ph.D., 1986, University of Cincinnati GAYLON E. GREER (1986) , Professor, Fogelman Chair of Excellence in Real Estate: B.S., 1963, Arizona State University; M.S., 1968, University of Missouri; Ph.D., 1974, University of Colorado PHILLIP THEODORE KOLBE (1989) , Associate Professor of Finance: B.S., 1970, United States Air Force Academy; M.A., 1981, Ph.D., 1988, University of Arizona NANCY HISEY KRATZKE (1989) , Associate Professor of Business Law: B.A., 1966, M.A., 1973, University of Oklahoma; J.D., 1980, Memphis State University THOMAS H. McINISH (1990) , Professor, Wunderlich Chair of Excellence in Finance: B.A., 1968, Birmingham-Southern College; M.A., 1971, American University; Ph.D., 1978, University of Pittsburgh MICHAEL J. McNAMARA (1993) , Assistant Professor of Insurance: B.S.B.A., 1983, Creighton University; Ph.D., 1988, University of Nebraska LARRY MOORE (1987) , Associate Professor of Business Law: B.A., 1971, Vanderbilt University; M.A., 1974, Memphis State University; J.D., 1976, Washington University MARS A. PERTL (1982) , Professor of Insurance, Chair: B.B.A. 1961, Ph.D., 1974, University of lowa STEPHEN W. PRUITT (1993) , Associate Professor of Finance: B.S., 1979, Purdue University; M.B.A., 1980, Ohio State University; Ph.D., 1987, Florida State University C. S. PYUN (1970) , Professor of Finance: B.A., 1960, Kyung Hee University; M.B.A., 1962, Miami University (Ohio); Ph.D., 1966, University of Georgia LESLIE S. SCRUGGS, JR. (1969) , Associate Professor of Finance: B.B.A., 1963, Memphis State University, M.B.A., 1964, University of Chicago; Ph.D., 1974, Vanderbilt University IRVIN LEE TANKERSLEY (1973) , Associate Professor of Business Law: B.B.A., 1967, Memphis State University; J.D., 1972, Tulane University ROBERT A. WOOD ( 1990) , Distinguished Professor of Finance: B.A., 1961, University of Washington; M.S., 1968, Stanford University; Ph.D., 1978, University of Pittsburgh MANAGEMENTTHOMAS R. MILLER , Ph.D., Chair W. KEVIN BARKSDALE (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.B.A., 1989, Ph.D., 1994, Georgia State University OTIS W. BASKIN (1991) , Professor: B.A., 1968, Oklahoma Christian College; M.A., 1970, University of Houston-University Park; Ph.D., 1975, The University of Texas at Austin RABI S. BHAGAT (1990) , Professor: B.S., 1969, Indian Institute of Technology; M.A., 1972, Xavier Labor Relations Institute; Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]M.A., 1974, Ph.D., 1977, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign LILLIAN HUNT CHANEY (1965) , Distinguished Professor, PSI Chair in Office Management: B.S., 1953, Alabama College; M.S., 1954, Ed.D., 1972, University of Tennessee V. CAROL DANEHOWER (1989) , Assistant Professor: B.A. 1977, Hendrix College; M.A., 1978, University of Arkansas; D.B.A., 1987, University of Kentucky BARBARA D. DAVIS (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S. 1974, Knoxville College; M.A., 1975, University of Kentucky; Ed.D., 1990, Memphis State University PETER S. DAVIS (1989) , Associate Professor: B.S.B.A., 1973, Appalachian State University; Ph.D., 1988, University of South Carolina IRENE M. DUHAIME (1991) , Professor: B.A., 1969, Dunbarton College; M.B.A., 1976, Boston University; Ph.D., 1981, University of Pittsburgh JOHN BARRY GILMORE (1971) , Associate Professor: B.B.A., 1963, Evangel College; M.B.A., 1965, University of Tulsa; Ph.D., 1971, University of Oklahoma JAMES CLIFFORD HODGETTS (1965) , Professor: B.S., 1948, University of Kentucky; M.A., 1949, University of Louisville; M.A.R., 1974, Memphis Theological Seminary; Ph.D., 1954, University of North Dakota COY A. JONES (1981) , Professor: B.B.A., 1971, University of Oklahoma; M.B.A., 1978, Central State University; Ph.D., 1982, University of Oklahoma BANWARI L. KEDIA (1988) , Professor, Wang Chair of Excellence in International Business: B.Comm., 1960, University of Rajasthan; LL.B., 1964, University of Bombay; M.B.A., 1966, Atlanta University; Ph.D., 1976, Case Western Reserve University JEFFREY A. KRUG (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1982, M.S., 1984, Penn State University; Ph.D., 1993, Indiana University THOMAS R. MILLER (1971) , Professor, Chair: B.A., 1966, M.B.A., 1968, Ph.D., 1972, Ohio State University VAN NORWOOD OLIPHANT (1969) , Professor, Vice Provost for Extended Programs: B.B.A., 1963, University of Mississippi; M.B.A., 1964, Memphis State University; D.B.A., 1969, Mississippi State University HERMAN F. PATTERSON (1955) , Professor, Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies, Fogelman College of Business and Economics: B.S., 1949, Berea College; M.A., 1954, University of Kentucky; Ed.D., 1967, Colorado State College BINFORD H. PEEPLES (1957) , Professor: B.S., 1949, Mississippi State University; M.S., 1952, Florida State University; M.S. 1961, University of Mississippi; Ed.D., 1964, University of Kentucky WAYNE A. PODGORSKI (1988) , Instructor, Internship Coordinator, Fogelman College of Business and Economics: B.B.A., 1980, M.B.A., 1986, Memphis State University ROBERT W. RENN (1989) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1982, Kennesaw State College; M.S., 1984, Ph.D., 1989, Georgia State University ROBERT R. TAYLOR (1983) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1970, Rollins College; M.A., 1976, Ph.D., 1979, Louisiana State University HOWARD S. TU (1988) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1965, Northwest Nazarene College; M.B.A., 1984, Boise State University; Ph.D., 1988, University of Massachusetts at Amherst PETER WRIGHT (1988) , Professor, Chair of Excellence in Free Enterprise Management: B.A., 1969, Ohio State University; M.B.A., 1973, Ph.D., 1975, Louisiana State University MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND DECISION SCIENCES RONALD B. WILKES , Ph.D., Chair MOHAMMAD M. AMINI (1988) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1976, Tehran University; M.B.A., 1979, University of North Texas; M.S., 1984, Ph.D., 1989, Southern Methodist University LLOYD DEMAR BROOKS (1971) , Professor: B.S., 1964, Middle Tennessee State University; M.S., 1968, Ed.D. 1971, University of TennesseeJUDITH COMPTON BROWN (1964) , Assistant Professor: B.B.A., 1961, Memphis State University; M.S., 1962, University of Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]TennesseeCHARLES J. CAMPBELL (1978) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1968, M.A., 1970, Southwest Texas State University; Ph.D., 1975, University of Texas MARK N. FROLICK (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1982, Jacksonville State University; M.B.A., 1986, Mercer University; Ph.D., 1991, University of Georgia WADE M. JACKSON (1985) , Associate Professor: B.Sc., 1974, Lambuth College; M.B.A., 1976, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1983, Texas A & M University SATISH MEHRA (1978) , Professor: B.Sc., 1966, University of Delhi; B.ENGG., 1969, University of Poona; M.B.A, 1972, Ph.D., 1978, University of Georgia RAVINDER NATH (1980) , Professor: B.A., 1972, M.A., 1974, Panjab University; M.S., 1975, Wichita State University; Ph.D., 1980, Texas Technological University ERNEST L. NICHOLS (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1980, University of Maine at Orono; M.B.A., 1985, Ph.D., 1993, Michigan State University PRASHANT PALVIA (1986) , Professor: B.S., 1971, University of Delhi; M.S., 1972, M.B.A., 1974, Ph.D., 1984, University of MinnesotaDONNA RETZLAFF-ROBERTS (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1984, M.S., 1985, University of Illinois; Ph.D., 1990; University of Cincinnati DONALD WAYNE SATTERFIELD (1968) , Associate Professor: B.S.B.A., 1962, M.B.A., 1964, Ph.D., 1971, University of Arkansas JUDITH CANFIELD SIMON (1975) , Professor: B.S., 1961, Oklahoma State Unviersity; M.B.A., 1969, West Texas State University; Ed.D., 1976, Oklahoma State University MICHAEL L. VINEYARD (1989) , Associate Professor: B.B.A., 1985, M.S., 1989, Ph.D., 1990, University of Cincinnati JAMES C. WETHERBE (1993) , Professor, Federal Express Chair of Excellence in Management Information Systems: A.D., 1970, B.B.A., 1971, M.B.A., 1973, New Mexico State University; Ph.D., 1976, Texas Tech University RONALD B. WILKES (1989) , Associate Professor, Chair: B.S.E., 1970, University of Tennessee at Martin; M.B.A., 1981, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1987, University of Minnesota ROY H. WILLIAMS (1967) , Professor: B.S., 1955, Delta State College; M.S., 1962, University of Mississippi, Ph.D., 1967, University of Alabama STEVEN M. ZELTMANN (1989) , Assistant Professor: B.S.,1976, University of Missouri; M.B.A., 1982, Ph.D., 1991, Florida State UniversityMARKETINGEMIN BABAKUS , Ph.D., Interim Chair C. L. ABERCROMBIE (1976) , Associate Professor: B.S.B.A., 1955, M.B.A., 1956,. University of Arkansas; Ph.D., 1966, University of Illinois EMIN BABAKUS (1985) , Professor, Interim Chair: B.A., 1968, Turkish Naval Academy; B.Sc., 1978, Istanbul University; M.A., 1981, M.S., 1982, Ph.D., 1985, University of Alabama DEANNA U. BARNWELL (1980) , Assistant Professor: B.S., B.A., 1976, M.B.A., 1978, Western Carolina University; Ph.D., 1982, University of Arkansas ROBERT L. BERL (1982) , Professor, Associate Dean for External Affairs: B.B.A., 1959, University of Cincinnati; M.B.A., 1969, Ph.D., 1983, Georgia State University GREGORY W. BOLLER (1988) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1982, M.S., 1984, Ph.D., 1988, Pennsylvania State University ALAN J. BUSH (1988) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1976, Winona State University, M.B.A., 1978, Ph.D., 1983, Louisiana State UniversityROBERT P. BUSH (1989) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1978, St. Mary's College; M.S., 1981, Ph.D., 1987, Louisiana State University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]T. BETTlNA CORNWELL (1987) , Associate Professor: B.A.,1981, Florida State University, M.B.A., 1983, Ph.D., 1987, University of TexasO. C. FERRELL (1989) , Distinguished Professor of Marketing and Business Ethics: B.A., 1964, M.B.A., Florida State University; Ph.D., 1972, Louisiana State University THOMAS N. INGRAM (1988) , Professor, Sales & Marketing Executives Chair in Sales Excellence: B.S. 1968, Auburn University, M.A., 1971, University of Alabama, Ph.D., 1980, Georgia State University JUDY JARRELL (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1982, M.B.A., 1984, West Virginia University, Ph.D., 1993, University of Maryland GEORGE H. LUCAS, JR. (1987) , Professor: B.S.B.A., 1976, M.B.A., 1979, University of Missouri, Ph.D., 1983, University of Missouri at Columbia JOHN JOSEPH PEPIN (1965) , Professor: B.B.A., 1962, M.B.A., 1964, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1969, University of Mississippi JAMES PETER RAKOWSKI (1978) , Professor: A.B., 1967, Princeton University; Ph.D., 1971, Columbia University PATRICK L. SCHUL (1986) , Associate Professor: B.B.A., 1975, M.B.A., 1976, University of Texas, Permian Basin; Ph.D., 1980, Texas A&M University ROBERT NEIL SOUTHERN (1976) , Associate Professor: B.A. 1954, M.S., 1957, University of Tennessee; Ph.D., 1981, Arizona State University HARRY HARMON SUMMER (1961) , Professor: B.B.A., 1958, Memphis State University; M.S., 1961, Ph.D., 1965, University of IllinoisPETER KIET TAT (1980) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1969, National Taiwan University; M.S., 1972, Memphis State University; D.B.A., 1979, Mississippi State University THE COLLEGE OF COMMUNICATION AND FINE ARTS RICHARD R. RANTA , Ph.D., Dean of the College of Communication and Fine Arts RAYMOND M. LYNCH , D.M.A., Associate Dean MARILYN Z. CARLTON , M.S., Assistant to the Dean for Undergraduate Programs and Academic Counselor DIONNE R. CHALMERS , M.A., Assistant to the Dean ARTROBERT E. LEWIS , M.F.A., Chair FRED ALBERTSON (1987) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1974, University of California-lrvine; M.A., 1977, Ph.D., 1980, Bryn Mawr College KATHY ALEXANDER (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1983, M.S., 1985, Florida State University BONNIE BEAVER (1973) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1962, Memphis State University; M.F.A., 1967, University of Georgia EDWARD L. BLEIBERG (1986) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1973, Haverford College; M.A., 1977, Ph.D., 1984, University of TorontoROBERT L. BRINKERHOFF (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.F.A., 1984, M.F.A., 1990, Virginia Commonwealth University LORELEI H. CORCORAN (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1975, Tufts University; Ph.D., 1988, University of Chicago CAROL CROWN (1975) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1967, University of Kansas; Ph.D., 1975, Washington University LAWRENCE F. EDWARDS (1978) , Professor: B.A., 1953, University of Southern Mississippi; M.F.A., 1957, University of Mississippi CALVIN L. FOSTER (1976) , Associate Professor: B.F.A., 1972, Memphis State University; M.F.A., 1974, Auburn University KEN S. HUANG (1973) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1962, Taiwan Normal University; M.A., 1972, M.F.A., 1973, University of lowa Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]LAWRENCE E. JASUD (1981) , Associate Professor: B.S.. 1969, Southern Illinois University; M.A., 1980, Ohio State University RICHARD H. KNOWLES (1966) , Professor: B.A., 1956, Northwestern University; M.A., 1961, Indiana University ROGER S. LANGDON (1965) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1963, East Tennessee State University; M.F.A., 1965, Florida State UniversityROBERT E. LEWIS (1992) , Associate Professor, Chair: B.S.C.E., 1962, New England College; M.F.A., 1971, Ohio University SANDRA L. LOWRANCE (1985) , Associate Professor: B.F.A., 1971, University of Tennessee; M.P.D., 1985, North Carolina State University WENDY McDARIS (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.F.A., 1971, Washington University; M.F.A., 1990, Memphis State University PAUL E. McKEEGAN (1975) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1964, Indiana University of Penn.; M.A., 1969, Kent State University; Ed.D., 1975, Ball State University LARRY E. McPHERSON (1978) , Associate Professor: B.A. 1976, Columbia College Chicago; M.A., 1978, Northern Illinois University GREELY L. MYATT (1989) , Associate Professor: B.F.A., 1975, Delta State University; M.F.A., 1980, University of Mississippi MELINDA B. PARSONS (1984) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1969, M.F.A., 1975, Ph.D., 1984, University of Delaware DAVID R. POHL (1990) , Assistant Professor: A.A., 1979, St. Petersburg Jr. College; B.A., 1981, University of South Florida; M.S., 1989, Florida State University CAROL J. PURTLE (1977) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1960, Maryville College; M.A., 1966, Manhattanville College; Ph.D., 1976, Washington University JAMES R. RAMSEY (1979) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1968, Vanderbilt University; M.A., 1970, Ph.D., 1975, Tulane University WAYNE SIMPKINS (1974) , Associate Professor: B.F.A., 1970, Carnegie-Mellon University; M.F.A., 1974, University of California- Santa Barbara NILES WALLACE (1976) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1970, Edinboro State College; M.F.A., 1974, Alfred University JAMES F. WATKINS (1968) , Professor: B.A., 1960, Louisiana College; M.A., 1965, University of Alabama NANCY SHARPE WHITE (1974) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1970, Florida Atlantic University; M.F.A., 1974, Alfred University RANDLE K. WITHERINGTON (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1974, Brigham Young University; M.S., 1979, Pratt Institute, New YorkPROFESSIONAL STAFF PATRICIA McREA (1993) , Visual Resources Curator: B.A., 1981, Colorado State University; M.A., 1989, Memphis State University LISA FRANCISCO (1990) , University Museum Registrar: B.A., 1980, Indiana University; M.F.A., 1990, Memphis State University LESLIE L. LUEBBERS (1990) , University Museum Director: B.A., 1967, Wellesley College; M.A.T., 1969, Johns Hopkins University; M.A., 1987, Institute of Fine Arts, New York University; M.S., 1990, Graduate School of Administration, New York University BRENDA LANDMAN (1971) , Assistant to the Chair ANNA KAY WALKER (1986) , Curator of Education: Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology: B.A., 1962, Southern Methodist University; M.A., 1983, Memphis State University COMMUNICATIONDAVID L. ACEY (1972) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1970, M.A., 1972, Memphis State University DAVID L. APPLEBY (1977) , Professor, Coordinator of Graduate Studies: B.A., 1970, Clark University; M.F.A., 1979, Temple UniversityJOHN P. BAKKE (1967) , Professor: B.A., 1960, Luther College; M.A., 1963, Ph.D., 1966, University of Iowa MARVIN R. BENSMAN (1969) , Professor: B.S., 1960, M.S., 1964, Ph.D., 1969, University of Wisconsin; J.D., 1981, Memphis Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]State University THOMAS J. DARWIN (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1988, Trinity University; M.A., 1991, University of Texas ROXANA L. GEE (1976) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1971, University of Nebraska; M.A., 1973, Memphis State University MARGARET ALLISON GRAHAM (1981) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1972, Florida State University; M.A., 1975, Ph.D., 1978, University of Florida KATHERINE G. HENDRIX (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1974, California State University; M.A., 1978, University of California; Ph.D., 1994, University of Washington L. JOANN KEYTON (1992) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1983, Western Michigan University; M.A., 1985, Ph.D., 1987, Ohio State University WALTER G. KIRKPATRICK (1977) , Associate Professor, Director of Communication Studies: B.A., 1967, University of Montana; M.A., 1969, Ph.D., 1974, University of Iowa DAVID GRAY MATTHEWS (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1984, Covenant College; M.A., 1986, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1993, Pennsylvania State University ROBERT W. McDOWELL (1982) , Assistant Professor: B.B.A., 1978, M.A., 1983, Ed.D., 1991, Memphis State University VALERIE A. MILANO (1988) , Instructor: B.S.Ed., 1982, M.Ed., 1985, Memphis State University MICHELLE A. MILLER (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1982, M.F.A., 1985, University of Southern California; M.A., 1987, Arizona State University MlCHAEL M. OSBORN (1966) , Professor: B.A., 1958, M.A., 1959, University of South Carolina; Ph.D., 1963, University of Florida RICHARD R. RANTA (1972) , Professor; Dean, College of Communication and Fine Arts: B.S., 1965, University of Minnesota; M.A., 1967, Cornell University; Ph.D., 1974, University of Iowa STEVEN J. ROSS (1988) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1971, State University of New York-Stony Brook; M.A., 1974, New York University LYNNE M. WEBB (1991) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1972, Pennsylvania State University; M.S., 1975, Ph.D., 1980, University of OregonJOURNALISMDAN L. LATTIMORE , Ph.D., Chair LOUIS A. ANDREWS (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1969, University of Florida; M.Div., 1973, Southwestern Theological Seminary; Ph.D., 1985, Florida State University M. DAVID ARANT (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1975, Davidson College; M. Div., 1978, Emory University; M.A., 1989, University of South Carolina; Ph.D., 1994, University of North Carolina E. W. (BILL) BRODY (1982) , Professor: B.A., 1977, Eastern Illinois University; M.A., 1978, California State University; Ed.D., 1982, Memphis State University J. RICK FISCHER (1989) , Assistant Professor: M.S., 1976, University of Southern California; M.A., 1977, San Jose State University; Ph.D., 1994, Southern Illinois University ELINOR GRUSIN (1988) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1962, Memphis State University; M.A., 1982, University of Mississippi; Ph.D., 1987, Ohio University CANDACE C. JUSTICE (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1973, University of Mississippi; M.A., Memphis State University DAN L. LATTIMORE (1987) , Professor, Chair: B.A., 1966, M.A., 1968, Texas Christian University; M.R.E., 1968, Southwestern Baptist Seminary; Ph.D., 1972, University of Wisconsin JOHN LEE ( 1984) , Professor: B.A., 1952, Texas Tech University; M.S J., 1965, West Virginia University JIM REDMOND (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1968, University of Montana; M.A., 1989, Ph.D., 1993, University of Colorado Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]RONALD EDWARD SPIELBERGER (1968) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1963, Memphis State University; M.A., 1965, Ohio State UniversityARTHUR A. TERRY (1980) , Associate Professor: B.J., 1960, M.A., 1980, University of Missouri SANDRA H. UTT (1984) , Associate Professor: B.S.J., 1968, M.S.J., 1974, West Virginia University; Ph.D., 1983, Ohio University MUSICB. GLENN CHANDLER , Ph.D., Chair LILY AFSHAR (1989) , Associate Professor: B.M., 1981, Boston Conservatory; M.M., 1983, New England Conservatory of Music; D.M., 1989, Florida State University JOHN BAUR (1979) , Professor: B.M., 1969, M.M., 1970, D.M.A., 1977, College Conservatory of Music, University of Cincinnati ANGELINE CASE-NEWPORT (1978) , Associate Professor: B.M., 1971, Vanderbilt University; M.M., 1978, Memphis State University B. GLENN CHANDLER (1994) , Professor, Chair: B.M.Ed., 1962, Samford University; M.C.M., 1966, Southern Baptist Theological Seminary; Ph.D., 1975, Indiana University JOHN CHIEGO (1979) , Professor: B.A., 1975, Montclair State College; M.M., 1979, Northwestern University JAMES M. COURTNEY (1987) , Assistant Band Director: B.A. 1983, Louisiana Tech University; M.M., 1985, D.M.A., 1987, Memphis State University RONALD CROY (1993) , Piano Technician: B.M., 1965, Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester ANN DOLPH (1991) , Suzuki Piano Coordinator: B.M.,1969, M.M., 1982, Memphis State University RICHARD MICHAEL DOLPH (1969) , Associate Professor: B.M., 1965, Curtis Institute of Music; M.A., 1969, University of PennsylvaniaLAWRENCE EDWARDS (1987) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1971, Seattle Pacific University; M.S., 1971, Ed.D., 1986, University of Illinois BRUCE A. ERSKINE (1976) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1974, M.M., 1975, State University of New York at Stony Brook DAVID EVANS (1978) , Professor: A.B., 1965, Harvard; M.A., 1967, Ph.D., 1976, University of California, Los Angeles DANIEL T. FLETCHER (1968) , Associate Professor: B.M., 1962, Stetson University; M.M., 1964, Indiana University PAMELA GASTON (1987) , Assistant Professor: B.M., 1973, M.M., 1974, Pittsburg State University; D.M.A., 1988, University of Missouri Kansas City Conservatory JAMES GHOLSON (1972) , Associate Professor: B.M., 1966, Michigan State University; M.M., 1970, D.M.A., 1975, Catholic University JOAN GlLBERT (1975) , Associate Professor: B.A.,1965, 0berlin College; M.S., 1967, The Juilliard School of Music TIMOTHY GOODWIN (1986) , Assistant Professor: B.M., 1981, M.M., 1984, University of Miami ROBERT LENTON GRIFFITH (1969) , Assistant Professor: B.M.,1967, University of Southern Mississippi; M.M., 1968, Indiana UniversityKAMRAN INCE (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.M., 1982, Oberlin Conservatory; M.M., 1984, D.M.A., 1987, Eastman School of Music JENNIFER JOHN (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.M., 1990, University of Cincinnati; M.M., 1992, University of Michigan KENNETH RICHARD KREITNER (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1978, Bucknell University; M.A., 1981, Ohio State University; M.A., 1984, Ph.D., Duke University DOUGLAS C. LEMMON (1971) , Professor: B.S., 1968, M.S., 1969, Ph.D., 1975, University of Illinois LARRY LIPMAN (1981) , Recording Studio Manager: B.S., 1981, Middle Tennessee State University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]RAYMOND MARTlN LYNCH (1966) , Professor; Associate Dean, Communication And Fine Arts: B.S., 1953, Davidson College; M.M., 1957, D.M.A., 1965, University of Michigan SIDNEY J. McKAY (1975) , Professor: B.A., 1959, M.M.Ed., 1965, Northeast Louisiana University; D.M.E., 1975, University of Southern Mississippi SHIRLEY WILKES McRAE (1977) , Professor: B.S. 1954, Texas Womans University; M.A., 1965, M.Ed., 1966, Memphis State University SHARON PAPIAN (1988) , Assistant Professor: B.M.E., 1964, Drake University; M.M., 1967, Indiana University LYDA PARTEE (1991) , Suzuki String Coordinator: B.M., 1982, West Virginia University; M.M., 1984, University of Colorado JOHN DAVID PETERSON (1981) , Professor, Director of Graduate Studies: B.M., 1967, M.M., 1968, A.M.D., 1970, University of Michigan JAMES WILLIAM RICHENS (1966) , Professor: B.S., 1958, Memphis State University; M.M., 1960, Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester ALLEN RIPPE (1978) , Assistant Professor: B.M., 1974, Hartt College of Music; M.M., 1976, University of Michigan EUGENE RUSH (1978) , Associate Professor: B.M., 1968, University of Maryland; M.A., 1977, University of Denver RANDAL JAMES RUSHING (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1979, Arkansas Tech. University; M.M.E., 1982, University of North TexasKONNIE K. SALIBA (1974) , Associate Professor: B.M.E., 1959, Illinois Wesleyan University; M.M., 1961, Southern Methodist University LEONARD SCHRANZE (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.M., 1981, Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester; M.M., 1983, New England Conservatory CHARLES A. SCHULZ (1974) , Associate Professor: B.M.E., 1970, Ohio State University; M.M., 1972, Memphis State University; D.M.A., 1980, University of North Texas FRANK W. SHAFFER (1975) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1971, Duquesne University, M.M., 1973, M.M.A., 1975, D.M.A., 1980, Yale UniversityROBERT ANDREW SNYDER (1966) , Professor: B.S., 1950, M.S., 1951, University of Illinois; D.M., 1958, Indiana University DAVID SPENCER (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.M.E., 1986, M.M., 1992, University of North Texas PETER LORAN SPURBECK (1968) , Professor: B.M., 1959, M.M., 1961, Indiana University BOBBY JOE TUCKER (1966) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1962, Arkansas State University; M.A., 1966, University of Mississippi SAMUEL VIVIANO (1980) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1965, M.S., 1966, The Juilliard School of Music DAVID RUSSELL WILLIAMS (1980) , Professor: A.B., 1954, Columbia College, N.Y.; M.A., 1956, Columbia University; Ph.D., 1965, Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester THEATRE AND DANCE JOHN J. MCFADDEN, JR. , M.F.A., Chair GLORIA D. BAXTER (1965) , Professor: B.A., 1964, Memphis State University; M.A., 1965, Northwestern University JOHN R. BURGESS (1983) , Associate Professor: A.A., 1974, Santa Barbara City College; B.A., 1978, California State University- Fullerton; M.F.A., 1983, University of Arizona-Tucson SUSAN C. CHRIETZBERG (1981) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1967, M.Ed., 1968, Middle Tennessee State University LESLEY K. FERRIS (1990) , Professor, Artistic Director: B.A., 1970, Mount Union College; M.A., 1974, San Diego State University; Ph.D., 1979, Unlversity of Minnesota LEVI FRAZIER, JR. (1990) , Instructor: B.A., 1973, Southwestern at Memphis; M.A., 1975, Memphis State University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]PAMELA A. GOSS (1990) , Assistant Professor: .B.A., 1970, University of Iowa; M.A., 1983, University of Arkansas-Little Rock; M.F.A., 1990, Northwestern University JOANNA P. HELMING (1976) , Associate Professor: B.A.,1963, University of Florida; M.A., 1967, Memphis State University DOUGLAS J. KOERTGE (1982) , Professor: B.S., 1964, M.S., 1965, Eastern Illinois University, Ph.D., 1973, University of Illinois HOLLY C. LAU (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1974, University of Southern Maine; M.F.A., 1991, Ohio State University ANITA JO LENHART (1987) , Assistant Professor: B.F.A., 1981, Eastern Kentucky University; M.F.A., 1985, Florida State University MOIRA J. LOGAN (1985) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1969, Vassar College; M.F.A., 1972, Sarah Lawrence College STEPHEN D. MALIN (1964) , Professor: B.A., 1957, Pennsylvania State University; M.A., 1962, Ph.D., 1968, University of Florida JOHN J. McFADDEN, JR. (1973) , Professor, Chair: B.A., 1969, King's College; M.F.A., 1975, Pennsylvania State University JOHN JOSEPH SHEA (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1972, Stanford University; M.A., 1987, M.F.A., 1990, University of California at Los Angeles THE COLLEGE OF EDUCATION NATHAN L. ESSEX , Ph.D., Dean ROBERT H. BEACH , Ph.D., Dean JOHN W. SCHIFANI , Ed.D., Assistant Dean GEORGE W. ETHERIDGE , Ed.D., Director of Graduate Curriculum LUCINDIA H. CHANCE , Ed.D., Director of Undergraduate Curriculum ELNORA ROANE , Ph.D., Director of Development KAREN D. WEDDLE , Ph.D., Recruitment Coordinator LENORE SCHMIDT , Ph.D., General Advisor CONSUMER SCIENCE AND EDUCATION DIXIE R. CRASE , Ph.D., Chair PATTI BRADFORD (1978) , Assistant Professor: B.F.A., 1972, Mississippi University for Women; M.F.A., 1977, Memphis State University NANCY R. CASAD (1990) , Instructor: B.A., 1960, Duchesne College; M.S., 1983, University of Tennessee, Knoxville DIXIE R. CRASE (1966) , Professor, Chair: B.S., 1959, Eastern New Mexico University; M.S., 1960, Kansas State University; Ph.D., 1967, Ohio State University MARY W. CROCKER (1974) , Professor: B.S.E., 1961, Delta State College; M.A., 1963, University of Mississippi; Ph.D., 1968, Florida State University CAROL O. MITCHELL (1987) , Professor: B.S.E., 1966, Henderson State University; M.S., 1972, Ph.D., 1977, Texas Woman's UniversityMARGARET M. QUINN (1983) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1970, University of Tennessee, Knoxville; M.E., 1976, Memphis State University ROBIN R. ROACH (1981) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1976, Memphis State University; M.P.H., 1980, Tulane University; Ed.D., 1989, Vanderbilt University MARY ANN SMITH (1987) , Professor: B.S. E., 1960, Henderson State University; M.S., 1962, Ph.D., 1965, University of Tennessee, Knoxville PATRICIA M. STEVENS (1980) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1968, University of Tennessee, Martin; M.S., 1972, Indiana State University; Ed.D., 1988, Mississippi State University CAROLYN LITCHFIELD WORMS (1982) , Professor: B.S., 1968, Old Dominion University; M.Ed., 1972, Virginia Commonwealth; Ed.D., 1976, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]COUNSELING, EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY, AND RESEARCH MARGARET L. FONG , Ph.D., Chair LINDA BOL (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1982, M.A., 1985, California State University, Fresno; Ph.D., 1991, University of California, Berkeley ROBERT L. CRAWFORD (1975) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1968, M.Ed., 1969, Ed.D., 1973, University of Kentucky; J.D., 1982, Memphis State University CHARLENE DeLOACH (1974) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1965, M.Ed., 1966, Ph.D., 1971, University of Illinois CORINNA A. ETHINGTON (1994) , Associate Professor: B.S., Mississippi State University; M.Ed., University of Georgia; Ph.D., Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University MARGARET L. FONG (1990) , Professor, Chair: B.S., 1968, State University of New York at Buffalo; M.S., 1969, University of California, San Francisco Medical Center; M.Ed., 1977, University of Hawaii; Ph.D., 1981, Arizona State University BURL ELDRED GILLILAND (1973) , Professor: B.S., B.A., 1949, Jacksonville State University; M.Ed., 1960, University of Tennessee, Chattanooga; Ed.D., 1966, University of Tennessee, Knoxville BOBBY GENE GREER (1967) , Professor: B.S., 1960, North Texas University; M.Ed., 1961, University of Arkansas; Ph.D., 1965, University of Texas DOUGLAS J. HACKER (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1976, University of Wisconsin-Madison; M.Ed., 1991, Ph.D., 1994, University of Washington DIANNE D. HORGAN (1984) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1969, Stanford University; Ph.D., 1975, University of Michigan RICHARD KEITH JAMES (1977) , Professor: B.S.E., 1964, M.Ed., 1966, Eastern Illinois University; Ph.D., 1974, Indiana State University WILLIAM J. JENKINS (1971) , Professor: B.S., 1959, Florida State University; M.A., 1965, Ed.D., 1972, University of Alabama SUZANNE H. LEASE (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1984, Wartburg College; M.A., 1986, Ph.D., 1989, Southern Illinois University OWEN RICHARD LIGHTSEY, JR. (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1978, M.S., 1982, University of Southern Mississippi; Ph.D., 1992, University of Maryland NANCY J. NISHIMURA (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1972, M.A., 1973, University of Washington, Seattle; Ed.D., 1991, University of Alabama ANN AILEEN O'CONNELL (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1983, Western New England College; M.S., 1985, University of Connecticut; Ed.D., 1993, Columbia University LESLIE C. PHILLIPSEN (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1988, Scripps College; M.A., 1991, Ph.D., 1994, University of California, Los Angeles RONNIE PRIEST (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.B.A., 1979, Baruch College; M.A., 1984, University of Alabama, Birmingham; Ph.D., 1990, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa ERNEST A. RAKOW (1975) , Professor: B.S., 1964, Concordia Teachers College; M.A., 1967, Ph.D., 1974, University of Chicago N. DEWAINE RICE (1975) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1971, University of Central Arkansas; M.Ed., 1974, Ed.D., 1980, Memphis State University STEVEN M. ROSS (1974) , Professor: B.A., 1969, M.S., 1972, Ph.D., 1974, Pennsylvania State University THOMAS V. SAYGER (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1973, Manchester College; M.S., 1982, Ph.D., 1987, Indiana State UniversityJEAN A. STEITZ (1979) , Professor: B.S., 1967, University of Wisconsin, Madison; M.S., 1974, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee; Ph.D., 1978, University of Wisconsin, Madison RUSSELL E. THOMAS (1980) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1963, M.S., 1965, Ph.D., 1970, Purdue University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]KAREN WEDDLE (1989) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1976, M.S., 1977, Ph.D., 1982, University of Tennessee, Knoxville JOYCE LYNOM YOUNG (1978) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1963, LeMoyne College; M.Ed., 1967, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1976, Southern Illinois University HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCES AND EDUCATION RALPH C. WILCOX , Ph.D., Chair DAVID L. ANDREWS (1994) , Assistant Professor, Coordinator of Undergraduate Studies: B.Ed., 1985, Exeter University; M.S., 1991, Ph.D., 1993, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign DAVID J. ANSPAUGH (1971) , Professor: B.A., 1965, Albion College; M.A., 1967, Eastern Michigan University; P.E.D., 1971, Indiana University; Ed.D., 1977, University of Tennessee CHRISTIAN BARTELS (1988) , Soccer Coach: B.S., 1973; M.Ed., 1977, Bowling Green State University LORI BROCK (1991) , Women's Golf Coach: B.M.C., 1984, Lamar University THOMAS BRIGHT BUFORD, JR. (1966) , Men's Tennis Coach: B.A., 1957, Rhodes College EDWIN D. CANTLER, JR. (1979) , Athletic Trainer: B.S., 1974; M.Ed., 1977, Memphis State University BRENDA CASH (1985) , Women's Track and Field Coach: B.A., 1981, Arizona State University: M.A., 1985, University of Iowa DIANE COLEMAN (1982) , Instructor, Campus School Physical Education Specialist: B.S., 1979, M.Ed., 1981, Memphis State UniversityJAMES A. COOK (1971) , Men's Golf Coach: B.S., 1968, Memphis State University DARRELL CRASE (1966) , Professor: B.A., 1956, Berea College; M.S., 1958, University of Tennessee; Ph.D., 1966, Ohio State University LARRY EDWARDS (1973) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1966, Erskine College; M.Ed., 1972, Memphis State University; Ed.D., 1978, University of Mississippi EDWARD KING ELLSWORTH (1969) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1965, Michigan State University; M.S., 1967, University of Tennessee; Ed.S., 1974, University of Mississippi RICHARD DENNIS FADGEN (1968) , Swimming Coach: B.S., 1959, North Carolina State University; M.S., 1961, Appalachian State University ANDREW C. FRY (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1979, Nebraska Wesleyan University; M.P.E., 1988, The University of Nebraska-Lincoln; Ph.D., 1993, Pennsylvania State University CAROLYN THORPE FURR (1964) , Assistant Professor, Coordinator of Undergraduate Studies: B.S., 1961, Longwood College; M.S., 1962, University of Tennessee WAYNE GUTCH (1980) , Instructor: B.S., 1972, University of Tennessee, Martin; M.Ed., 1974, M.S., 1976, Memphis State UniversityMICHAEL H. HAMRICK (1967) , Professor: B.S., 1966, M.Ed., 1967, Memphis State University; Ed.D., 1973, University of Tennessee GLENN T. HAYS (1970) , Men's Track Coach: B.A., 1967, Southwestern University; M.Ed., 1972, Memphis State University JANE HOWLES HOOKER (1969) , Associate Professor: B.S.E., 1968, M.E., 1969, Memphis State University; Ed.S., 1974, Ph.D., 1988, University of Mississippi MICHAEL G. HUFFMAN (1985) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1978, M.S., 1980, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1985, University of Utah MELVIN A. HUMPHREYS (1962) , Professor: B.S., 1959, B.S., 1961, University of Tennessee: M.A., 1962, Memphis State University; Re.D., 1973, Indiana University RICHARD IRWIN (1994) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1979, M.A., 1985, Ed.D., 1990, University of North Carolina Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]ROBERT KILPATRICK (1971) , Athletic Administrator: B.S., 1962, University of Mississippi RICHARD B. KREIDER (1994) , Associate Professor, Assistant Chair: B.S., 1984, Liberty University; M.S., 1985, Ph.D., 1987, University of Southern Mississippi HARRIETTE JOAN LAVENUE (1967) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1960, University of Tennessee, Martin; M.S., 1961, University of Tennessee YUHUA LI (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1978, Shanghai Institute of P.E.; M.S., 1990, Pennsylvania State University; Ph.D., 1993, Texas A & M University LAWRENCE E. LILES (1975) , Instructor, Racquetball Coach: B.S., 1974, M.S., 1975, Memphis State University GAYLE McDONALD (1990) , Women's Athletic Trainer: B.S., 1983, Freed-Hardeman University; M.Ed., 1985, M.S., 1987, Memphis State University ROBERT P. McDONALD (1994) , Baseball Coach: B.S., 1984, Murray State University; M.S., 1991, Mississippi State University JEBOSE OKWUMABUA (1988) , Associate Professor, Coordinator of Graduate Studies: B.S., 1976, M.S., 1980, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1985, University of New Mexico CHARLOTTE PETERSON (1975) , Women's Tennis Coach: B.S., 1972, M.Ed., 1974, Memphis State University ROBERT PITTER (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.P.H.E., 1983, University of Toronto; M.A., 1987, Ph.D., 1993, University of Alberta SAMI RANDOLPH (1994) , Assistant Volleyball Coach: B.S., 1994, Memphis State University FRANK ROSATO (1973) , Professor: B.S., 1965, Troy State University; M.Ed., 1966, Ed.D., 1973, University of Tennessee CHARLES ROY SCHROEDER (1968) , Professor: B.Ed., 1960, University of Miami; M.S., 1964; Ph.D., 1968, Florida State UniversityGEDDES SELF, JR. (1968) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1960, M.A., 1961, Memphis State University FRANK UNRUH SIMONTON (1968) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1961, M.A., 1962, Memphis State University SHARON L. VAN OTEGHEN (1977) , Professor: B.A., 1961, M.A., 1968, University of lowa; P.E.D., 1973, Indiana University MARY WALLING (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1984, Texas Wesleyan University; M.S., 1990, University of North Carolina; Ph.D., 1994, Purdue University STANLEY N. WALLS (1977) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1973, M.Ed., 1976, Ed.D., 1991, Memphis State University LAWRENCE W. WEISS (1986) , Professor: B.S., 1974, Old Dominion University; M.Ed., 1974, Ed.D., 1979, University of Georgia STEVE WHISTLER (1994) , Track and Field Coach: B.S., 1989, Murray State University; M.S., 1992, Baylor University RALPH C. WILCOX (1993) , Professor: Chair: B.Ed., 1977, University of Exeter, U.K.; M.S., 1978, Washington State University; Ph.D., 1982, University of Alberta, Canada INSTRUCTION AND CURRICULUM LEADERSHIP STEPHEN B. GRAVES , Ph.D., Chair S. WALI ABDI (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1978, M.A. Ed., 1982, Ed.D., 1988, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State UniversityREBECCA S. ANDERSON (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1974, High Point College; B.Ed., 1976, Brandon University; M.A., 1977, Ed.S., 1979, Appalachian State University; Ph.D., 1993, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University KATHERINE A. ABRAHAM (1986) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1967, M.S., 1969, Ph.D., 1979, University of Mississippi WALTER BALDWIN (1992) , Instructor: B.A., 1972, M.Ed., 1988, Memphis State University TEMBA C. BASSOPPO-MOYO (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1975, Long Island University; M.S., 1979, Syracuse University; Ph.D., C.P.E., 1993, Florida State University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]CAROLE BOND (1979) , Professor: B.A., 1966, University of Iowa; M.A., 1976, Ph.D., 1979, Arizona State University PATRICIA A. BROOKS (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1965, Lane College; Ph.D., 1976, Ohio State University TOM BUGGEY (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1973, Indiana University of Pennsylvania; M.S., 1981, Clarion State College; Ph.D., 1993, Pennsylvania State University LUCINDIA H. CHANCE (1987) , Associate Professor, Director of Teacher Education: B.S., 1968, Lambuth College; M.S., 1976, University of Tennessee, Martin; Ed.D., 1985, Memphis State University RONALD W. CLEMINSON (1970) , Professor: B.E., 1962, University of Wisconsin; M.A.T., 1966, Michigan State University; Ph.D., 1970, University of Iowa JOSEPH FARRIS CRABTREE II (1965) , Professor: B.S., 1950, Emory and Henry College; M.Ed., 1958, Ed.D., 1965, University of VirginiaBONNIE SHIELDS CUMMINGS (1983) , Instructor/Coordinator: B.S., 1970, M.Ed., 1972, Memphis State University LISA D. DeMEULLE (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1986, California State University; Ph.D., 1993, University of California Santa BarbaraAMY P. DIETRICH (1986) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1971, University of Alabama, M.Ed., 1974, Ed.D., 1979, Memphis State UniversityWILSON L. DIETRICH (1971) , Professor: B.S., 1958, Slippery Rock State College; M.S., 1964, Appalachian State University; Ed.D., 1967, University of Alabama ARLEEN T. DODD (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1983, Fordham University; M.S., 1988, Iona College CAROL P. ETHERIDGE (1984) , Assistant Professor: B.A.E., 1966, M.Ed., 1970, University of Florida; Ed.D., 1984, Memphis State University GEORGE W. ETHERIDGE (1977) , Associate Professor, Director of Graduate Studies: B.A.Ed., 1964, M.Ed., 1969, Ed.D., 1971, University of Florida PATTY CRONIN FAVAZZA (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S.Ed., 1977, M.Ed., 1981, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1993, Vanderbilt University ARTHUR ERVIN GARNER (1970) , Professor: B.A., 1960, Harding College; M.Ed., 1966, Ed.D., 1969, University of Houston DUANE M. GIANNANGELO (1972) , Professor: B.S., 1964, Edinboro State College; M.Ed., 1967, University of Pittsburgh; Ph.D., 1972, University of Iowa STEPHEN B. GRAVES (1994) , Associate Professor, Chair: B.A., 1972, Appalachian State University; M.Ed., 1974, Ph.D., 1986, University of South Carolina BONNIE R. GREER (1974) , Professor: A.B., 1968, Indiana University; M.Ed., 1969, Ph.D., 1971, University of Oklahoma JOHN G. GREER (1974) , Professor: B.A., 1967, M.Ed., 1971, University of Delaware; Ph.D., 1974, Pennsylvania State University GAYE G. HANSEN (1988) , Instructor: B.S., 1973, Western Michigan University; M.S., 1987, Memphis State University MARTHA M. HARRISON (1992) , Instructor: B.S., 1971, University of Tennessee; M.Ed., 1990, Ed.D., 1992, Memphis State University JOHN M. JOHNSTON (1984) , Professor: B.S., 1969, University of Texas; M.S., 1974, University of Tennessee; Certificate of Advanced Study, 1975, University of Chicago; Ph.D., 1978, Ohio State University ROBERT A. KAISER (1969) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1957, Allegheny College; M.Ed., 1961; Ed.D., 1967, University of Pittsburgh SUSAN M. KELLY (1990) , Assistant Professor: A.B., 1969, Mount Holyoke College; M.A., 1971, University of Connecticut; Ed.D., 1986, Memphis State University JANIE KNIGHT (1983) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1957, Lane College; M.E., 1971, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1983, University of Iowa RAMONA M. MAHOOD (1964) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1955, Utah State University; M.S., 1959, C.A.S., 1971, University of Illinois Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]SHERYL A. MAXWELL (1994) , Assistant Professor: A.B., 1965, University of Northern Colorado; M.A.T., 1985, University of Nebraska at Omaha; Ph.D., 1994, University of Virginia VIVIAN G. MORRIS (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1962, M.A., 1969, Alabama A&M University; Ph.D., 1973, Vanderbilt University GARY R. MORRISON (1984) , Professor: B.S., 1971, Ed.D., 1977, Indiana University THOMAS R. RAKES (1972) , Professor and Director of Research and Development, College of Education: B.S., 1968, Milligan College; M.S., 1969, East Tennessee State University; Ed.D., 1972, University of Tennessee H. LYNDALL RICH (1969) , Professor: B.A., 1958, M.A., 1961, University of Kentucky; Ph.D., 1969, Syracuse University JOHN W. SCHIFANI (1975) , Professor, Assistant Dean: B.A., 1958, Nichols State University; M.S.W., 1960, Louisiana State University; Ed.D., 1971, University of Alabama DENNIE L. SMITH (1971) , Professor: B.S., 1965, M.S., 1966, Marshall University; Ed.D., 1969, Auburn University LANA M. SMITH (1975) , Professor: B.A., 1964, University of Texas; M.S., 1970, Ph.D., 1975, Southern Illinois University SATOMI TAYLOR (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1970, Meijigakuin University; M.A., 1988, San Francisco State University; Ph.D., 1992, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University JANE S. TRACE (1992) , Instructor/Coordinator: B.A., 1977, M.S., 1979, Radford University ANNE C. TROUTMAN (1977) , Associate Professor: B.S.Ed., 1964, University of Georgia; M.Ed., 1970, Ph.D., 1977, Georgia State UniversityLILLIAN E. WHITNEY (1973) , Instructor/Coordinator: B.S., 1956, Lemoyne College; M.A., 1962, University of Michigan LEADERSHIPBARBARA K. TOWNSEND , Ed.D., Chair ROBERT H. BEACH (1990) , Professor, Assistant Dean: B.A., 1962, Syracuse University; M.S., 1970, SUNY Albany; Ph.D., 1979, Florida State University E. DEAN BUTLER (1970) , Associate Professor: B.M., 1957, Belmont College; M.A., 1962, Memphis State University; Ed.D., 1966, University of Tennessee RANDY J. DUNN (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S.Ed., 1980, M.S.E., 1983, Illinois State University; Ed.D., 1991, University of IllinoisNATHAN L. ESSEX (1989) , Professor, Dean: B.S., 1964, Alabama A&M University; M.S., 1972, Jacksonville State University; Ph.D., 1975, University of Alabama ANN HASSENPFLUG (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1972, University of Louisville; M.A., 1974, Leicester University; M.S., 1981, Ph.D., 1981, University of Wisconsin-Madison DORIS A. HENRY (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1971, Miami University, Ohio; M.Ed., 1979, Arizona State University; Ed.D., 1990, Columbia University, Teachers College ANNE M. KNUPFUR (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1975, M.F.A., 1983, Ph.D., 1992, University of Iowa FRANK W. MARKUS (1971) , Professor: B.S., 1956, M.A., 1957, Ph.D., 1964, Northwestern University BARBARA K. MULLINS (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1986, Iowa State University; M.S., 1988, Ph.D., 1992, Florida State UniversityPATRICIA H. MURRELL (1970) , Professor: B.A., 1956, Millsaps College; M.Ed., 1966, Ed.D., 1968, University of Mississippi JOHN R. PETRY (1967) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1948, M.S., 1953, Hardin-Simmons University; B.D., 1953, M.Div., 1973, Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary; Ed.D., 1973, Vanderbilt University ROBERT RIGGS (1988) , Regents Professor: B.A., 1964, Vanderbilt University; M.Ed., 1968, Ed.D., 1970, Memphis State University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]JOHN C. SMART (1994) , Professor: B.A., 1963, Wittenberg University; M.A., 1967, University of Tennessee; Ph.D., 1971, University of Kentucky R. EUGENE SMITH (1980) , Adjunct Professor, Vice President for Business and Finance: B.S., 1957, Middle Tennessee State University; M.S., 1966, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1979, University of Mississippi BARBARA K. TOWNSEND (1993) , Professor: B.A., 1965, M.A., 1967, State University of New York at Albany; Ed.D., 1984, The College of William and Mary THE HERFF COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING RICHARD C. WARDER , Ph.D., Dean FRANK CLAYDON , Ph.D., Associate Dean and Director of Graduate Studies and Research CHARLES W. BRAY , Ph.D., Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies JO BAKER , B.B.A., Administrative Assistant to the Dean CAROL LEE FERGUSON , M.Ed., College Level Advisor BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING VINCENT T. TURITTO , Sc.D., Chair DENES I. BARDOS (1990) , Adjunct Professor: B.S., 1962, M.S., 1963, Ph.D., 1966, University of Illinois JACK BUCHANAN (1994) , Adjunct Professor: B.S., 1967, M.S., 1970, M.D., 1975, University of Kentucky ROCCO A. CALANDRUCCIO (1990) , Adjunct Professor: M.D., 1947, Yale Medical School; M.S., 1954, University of Tennessee- Memphis LEE J. CARMACK (1988) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1972, M.S., 1976, Texas A&M University; Ph.D., 1987, University of Texas JAMES J. CASSIDY (1991) , Adjunct Professor: B.A, 1981, University of Pennsylvania, M.S., 1984, Ph.D., 1989, Case Western Reserve University JAMES A. DAVIDSON (1994) , Adjunct Professor: B.S, 1973, M.S., 1977, University of Pittsburgh; Ph.D., 1988, University of StrathclydeFRANK A. DiBIANCA (1994) , Adjunct Professor: B.S, 1962, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; M.S., 1966, Ph.D., 1970, Carnegie- Mellon University EUGENE C. ECKSTEIN (1993) , Adjunct Professor: S.B.M.E., 1970, S.M.M.E., 1970, Ph.D., 1975, Massachusetts Institute of TechnologyYUAN-CHENG FUNG (1990) , Adjunct Professor: B.S., 1941, M.S., 1943, National Central University; Ph.D., 1948, California Institute of Technology LISA H.K. JENNINGS (1992) , Adjunct Professor: B.A., 1976, University of Tennessee; M.S., 1978, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1983, University of Tennessee PAUL KOVACS (1994) DEBI P. MUKHERJEE (1991) , Adjunct Professor: B.Ch.E., 1961, University of Connecticut; S.M., 1966, Sc.D., 1969, Massachusetts Institute of Technology LLOYD D. PARTRIDGE (1993) , Adjunct Professor: B.S., 1948, M.S., 1949, Ph.D., 1953, University of Michigan JOHN D. RAY (1968) , Professor: B.S., 1956, M.S., 1957, University of Illinois; Ph.D., 1968, University of Oklahoma STEVEN M. SLACK (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1983, Carnegie-Mellon University; Ph.D., 1989, University of Washington SIDNEY S. SOBIN (1992) , Adjunct Professor: B.S., 1935, Ph.D., 1938, M.D., 1941, University of Michigan VINCENT T. TURITTO (1990) , Professor, Chair of Excellence in Biomedical Engineering: B.S., 1965, Manhattan College; Sc.D., 1972, Columbia University WINFRED C. WANG (1994) , Adjunct Professor: A.B., 1963, University of California; M.D., 1967, University of Chicago Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]MICHAEL R. T. YEN (1987) , Professor: B.S., 1962, National Taiwan University; M.S., 1968, University of California-- Berkeley; Ph.D., 1973, University of California-San Diego HERBERT D. ZEMAN (1994) , Adjunct Professor: A.B., 1965, Oberlin College; M.S., 1966, Ph.D., 1972, Stanford University CIVIL ENGINEERING MARTIN E. LIPINSKI , Ph.D., Chair JERRY LEE ANDERSON (1972) , Associate Professor: B S.C.E., 1966, Tennessee Technological University; M.S., 1967, Ph.D., 1972, Vanderbilt University CHARLES V. CAMP (1989) , Associate Professor: B S.C.E., 1981, M.S., 1986, Auburn University; Ph.D., 1987, Oklahoma State University TZYY-SHIOU CHANG (1988) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1977, Tamkang University; M.S., 1982, Ph.D., 1986, University of MichiganTHOMAS SAMUEL FRY (1969) , Professor: B.S.C.E., 1950, M.S.C.E., 1953, Ph.D., 1959, University of Illinois OTTO J. HELWEG (1988) , Professor: B.S., 1958, U.S. Naval Academy, M.Div., 1966, Fuller Theological Seminary; M.S., 1967, U.C.L.A., Ph.D.; 1975, Colorado State University JAMIE W. HURLEY, JR. (1981) , Professor: B.S., 1961, M.S., 1967, Mississippi State University; Ph.D., 1975, University of Florida HOWARD H. M. HWANG (1986) , Professor: B.S.E., 1968, Cheng Kung University; M.S., 1972, D.Eng.Sc., 1976, Columbia UniversityMARTIN E. LIPINSKI (1975) , Professor, Chair: B.S.C.E., 1964, University of Illinois; Certificate in Traffic Engr., 1965, Yale; M.S.C.E., 1966, Ph.D., 1972, University of Illinois LARRY W. MOORE (1983) , Associate Professor: B.S.C.E., 1973, University of South Alabama; M.S.C.E., 1974, Ph.D., 1983, Mississippi State University SHAHRAM PEZESHK (1989) , Associate Professor: B.S.C.E., 1982, University of Illinois; M.S.C.E., 1983, University of California at Berkeley; Ph.D., 1989, University of Illinois MICHAEL J. RACER (1989) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1984, Rice University; M.S., 1986, Ph.D., 1990, University of California at Berkeley WILLIAM T. SEGUI (1968) , Associate Professor: B.S.C.E., 1960, M.S., 1966, Ph.D., 1971, University of South Carolina JOHN WARREN SMITH (1970) , Professor: B.S.C.E., 1965, M.S.C.E., 1967, Ph.D., 1968, University of Missouri (Rolla) ROGER H. SMITH (1986) , Associate Professor: B.S.C.E., 1965, M.S.C.E., 1966, Ph.D., 1978, University of Missouri (Rolla) ORVILLE E. WHEELER (1978) , Herff Professor of Structural Mechanics: B.E., 1954, Vanderbilt University; M.S.C.E., 1956, University of Missouri; Ph.D., 1966, Texas A & M University ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CARL E. HALFORD , Ph.D., Chair MICHAEL BARTZ (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.S.E.E., 1983, M.S.E.E., 1988, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1992, Georgia Institute of Technology CHARLES WILSON BRAY (1969) , Professor: B.S., 1960, M.S., 1961, Mississippi State University; Ph.D., 1969, University of Tennessee FRANK J. CLAYDON III (1987) , Associate Professor, Associate Dean: B.S.E.E., 1982, Texas A & M University; M.S., 1984, Ph.D., 1987, Duke University MICHAEL L. DALEY (1988) , Associate Professor: B.S.E.E., 1968, University of Massachusetts; M.S.E.E., 1970, Ph.D., 1973, University of Rochester RUSSELL J. DEATON (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.S.E.E., 1984, M.S., 1988, Memphis State University; Ph.D., 1992, Duke Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]UniversityBABAJIDE O. FAMILONI (1987) , Associate Professor: B.Sc., 1978, University of Lagos, Nigeria; Ph.D., 1986, University of Alberta, Canada STEVEN T. GRIFFIN (1982) , Associate Professor: B.S.E.E., 1975, Memphis State University; M.S., 1977, Ph.D., 1979, University of Illinois CARL EDWIN HALFORD (1970) , Professor, Chair: B.S.E.E., 1966, M.S.E.E., 1967, Ph.D., 1970, University of Arkansas WILLIAM HOWARD JERMANN (1967) , Professor: B.E.E., 1958, M.A., 1962, University of Detroit; Ph.D., 1967, University of Connecticut DAVID MUNDIE (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.S.E.E., 1978, Mississippi State University; M.S.E.E., 1980, Georgia Institute of Technology; Ph.D., 1992, Vanderbilt University JOHN HERBERT REECE (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S.E.E., 1976, University of Tennessee; M.S., 1978, Ph.D., 1992, North Carolina State University DAVID J. RUSSOMANNO (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.E.E., 1986, Auburn University; M.E., 1989, Ph.D., 1993, University of South Carolina TIMOTHY ALAN WILSON (1994) , Assistant Professor: S.B.E.E., 1985, S.M., E.E.C.S., 1987, Sc.D., E.E.C.S., 1994, Massachusetts Institute of Technology ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY WESTON TERRELL BROOKS , Ph.D., Chair WESTON TERRELL BROOKS (1967) , Professor, Chair: B.S., 1961, M.Ed, 1962, Sam Houston State College; D.Ed., 1964, Texas A & M University SHERRY BRYAN-HAGGE (1984) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1980; M.S., 1982, Memphis State University; M. Arch., 1991, Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University KENNETH DALE CREMER (1969) , Professor: B.S., 1956, M.A., 1960, Murray State University; Ed.D., 1970, Utah State University GLEN WILSON DAVIS (1968) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1966, Memphis State University; M.S., 1974, Murray State University RONALD LEE DAY (1973) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1967, M.A., 1970, Western Kentucky University ROBERT LIVINGSTON DOUGLAS (1980) , Assistant Professor: B.S.E.E., 1962, University of Mississippi; M.S.E.E., 1967, University of Houston LEON EUGENE DROUIN (1981) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1963, Purdue University; M.S.E.E., 1970, United States Naval Post Graduate School; Ed.D., 1992, Memphis State University DEBORAH J. HOCHSTEIN (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1976, Georgian Court College, M.S., 1984, University of Akron ROBERT E. MAGOWAN (1967) , Professor: B.S., 1960, M.A., 1961, Eastern Kentucky University; Ed.D., 1967, Texas A&M University SUSAN MAGUN-JACKSON (1985) , Associate Professor: B.S.E.T. 1984, M.S., 1985, Memphis State University FRANCIS MAH (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.Arch., 1952, Yale University O. RAYMOND MARTIN (1981) , Assistant Professor: M.S., 1953, Virginia Tech University THOMAS EUGENE MASON (1973) , Assistant Professor: B.S.C.E., 1969, Michigan Technological University; M.A., 1972, Western Michigan University LING LING PAN (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1983, Tianjin University; M.S., 1989, Ph.D., 1993, Old Dominion University SCOTT C. SOUTHALL (1994) , Assistant Professor: B.S.E.T., 1987, M.S., 1991, Memphis State University MARK M. WILLIAMS (1984) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1982, M.S., 1984, Memphis State University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]MECHANICAL ENGINEERING EDWARD H. PERRY , Ph.D., Chair TONY J. ANDERSON (1993) , Assistant Professor: B.S.M.E., 1983, Utah State University; M.S.M.E., 1987, Arizona State University; Ph.D., 1993, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University SRIKANT GIR (1987) , Assistant Professor: B.S.Ch.E., 1976, Osmania University, India; M.S.Ch.E., 1977, Oklahoma State University; Ph.D., 1992, University of Strathclyde, Scotland JOHN HOCHSTEIN (1991) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1973, Stevens Institute of Technology; M.S.M.E., 1979, Pennsylvania State University; Ph.D., 1989, University of Akron WILLIAM S. JANNA (1987) , Professor: B.S.M.E., 1971, M.S.M.E., 1973, Ph.D., 1976, University of Toledo GLADIUS LEWIS (1987) , Professor: B.Sc., 1972, University of London, England; M.Sc., 1974, Council for National Academic Awards, England; Ph.D., 1976, University of Nottingham, England EDWARD H. LIN (1985) , Associate Professor: B.S.M.E., 1974, National Chung-Hsing University; M.S.M.E., 1980, Ph.D., 1985, University of Cincinnati CHU-HO LU (1989) , Assistant Professor: B.S.M.E., 1977, Chung Yuan University (Taiwan); M.S.M.E., 1984, Ph.D., 1989, Syracuse UniversityJIADA MO (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1982, M.S., 1989, Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Ph.D., 1989, University of Tennessee, Knoxville EDWARD H. PERRY (1970) , Professor, Chair: B.S., 1966, M.S., 1967, Ph D., 1970, California Institute of Technology JOHN D. RAY (1968) , Professor: B.S., 1956, M.S., 1957, University of Illinois; Ph.D., 1968, University of Oklahoma TEONG ENG TAN (1984) , Associate Professor: B.Sc.E., 1980, M.Sc.E., 1981, University of New Brunswick, Canada; Ph.D., 1984, Iowa State University SAMUEL B. THOMASON (1984) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1967, M.E., 1974, University of South Carolina; Ph.D., 1979, North Carolina State University SCHOOL OF AUDIOLOGY AND SPEECH-LANGUAGE PATHOLOGY MAURICE I. MENDEL , Dean MICHAEL CANNITO (1994) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1975, M.S., 1980, Lamar University; Ph.D., 1986, University of Texas ROBYN COX (1977) , Professor: B.S., 1969, M.A., 1971, Ball State University; Ph.D., 1974, Indiana University CHERYL GOODENOUGH-TREPAGNIER (1993) , Research Associate Professor: B.A., 1966, M.A., 1967, Ph.D., 1974, University of TorontoHERBERT J. GOULD (1987) , Associate Professor: B.A. 1972, Michigan State University; M.A., 1974, Ph.D., 1975, University of IllinoisJOYCE HARRIS (1992) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1973, M.A., 1974, University of Texas at El Paso; Ph.D., 1992, University of Texas at Austin JOEL KAHANE (1974) , Professor: B.A., 1969, M.S., 1972, Brooklyn College; Ph.D., 1975, University of Pittsburgh ALAN KAMHI (1982) , Professor: B.A., 1972, University of Wisconsin; M.A., 1976, Ph.D., 1979, Indiana University WALTER MANNING (1977) , Professor: B.A., 1964, Lycoming College, M.Ed., 1967, Pennsylvania State University; Ph.D. 1972, Michigan State University MAURICE I. MENDEL (1988) , Professor, Dean: B.A., 1965, University of Colorado; M.S., 1967, Washington University; Ph.D., 1970, University of Wisconsin KAREN E. POLLOCK (1989) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1975, M.A., 1980, University of Oregon; Ph.D., 1986, Purdue University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]GERALD STUDEBAKER (1979) , Distinguished Professor: B.S. 1955, Illinois State University; M.S., 1956, Ph.D., 1960, Syracuse UniversityDAVID J. WARK (1971) , Associate Professor & Coordinator of Graduate Studies: B.A., 1965, M.A, 1967, University of Alabama; Ph.D., 1971, Indiana University LOEWENBERG SCHOOL OF NURSING TONI BARGAGLIOTTI , D.N.Sc., Dean SHEILA HALL , M.S., Assistant to the Dean MARGARET AIKEN (1977) , Associate Professor: B.A. 1965, Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart; M S.N., 1977, University of Texas School of Nursing at Austin; Ph.D., 1991, University of Mississippi PATRICIA ARANGIE (1991) , Assistant Professor: B.S.N., 1982, M.S., 1984, Memphis State University; M.S.N., 1989, University of Tennessee-Memphis DIANA BAKER (1993) , Associate Professor: B.S.N., 1959, Ohio State University; M.S., 1978, University of Tennessee-Memphis; Ed.D., 1992, Memphis State University TONI BARGAGLIOTTI (1992) , Professor, Dean: B.S.N., 1976, University of Tennessee-Memphis; M.S.N., 1978, D.N.Sc., 1984, University of California at San Francisco ROBERT BARTLETT (1993) , Instructor: B.S.N., 1988, Union University; M.S., 1990, University of Tennessee-Memphis TERESA BRITT (1994) , Instructor: B.S.N., 1982, M.S., 1986, University of Tennessee-Memphis TERESA CABLE (1990) , Instructor: B.S.N., 1967, University of Oklahoma Medical Center; M.S.N., 1977, University of Alabama at Birmingham SHIRLEY EDEN-KILGOUR (1973) , Assistant Professor: B.S.N., 1972, M.S.N., 1973, Boston University SUSAN JACOB (1984) , Associate Professor: B.S.N., 1970, West Virginia University; M.S.N., 1975, San Jose State University; Ph.D., 1993, University of Tennessee ERIN JOLLY (1994) , Instructor: B.S.N., 1983, M.S., 1990, University of Tennessee-Memphis ROBERT KOCH (1994) , Instructor: B.S.N., 1991, M.S.N., 1994, University of Tennessee-Memphis MARJORIE LUTTRELL (1988) , Associate Professor: B.S.N., 1966, Northwestern State University; M.S.N., 1977, University of Texas-Galveston; Ph.D., 1986, University of Texas-Austin SARAH MYNATT (1974) , Professor: B.S.N., 1962, M.S., 1974, University of Tennessee; Ed.D., 1982, Memphis State University ROSE NEALIS (1990) , Assistant Professor: B.S.N., 1971, M.N., 1972, University of Florida TOMMIE NORRIS (1994) , Instructor: B.S.N., 1985, Memphis State University; M.S., 1987, University of Tennessee-Memphis SHARYL SMITH (1993) , Instructor: B.S.N., 1985, Coe College; M.S., 1990, University of Michigan ELIZABETH THOMAS (1994) , Instructor: B.S.N., 1991, Union University; M.S.N., 1992, University of Tennessee-Memphis KATHY THOMPSON (1994) , Instructor: B.S.N., 1983, M.S.N., 1986, Valdosta State College MYRA S. TILLIS (1975) , Assistant Professor: B.S.N., 1963, M.S., 1978, University of Tennessee STEPHANIE VANARSDALE (1993) , Associate Professor: B.S., 1978, M.S., 1979, University of Utah, Ed.D., 1993, University of ArkansasMARILYN WERNER (1994) , Instructor: B.S.N., 1971, University of Maryland; M.S.N., 1981, Catholic University UNIVERSITY COLLEGE H. RAMSEY FOWLER , Ph.D., Dean of University College SUSANNE B. DARNELL , Ph.D., Associate Dean for Baccalaureate Programs Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]CHARLES DeWITT , J.D., Director of Special Programs CLAIRE LOWRY , M.S.S.W., College Advisor and Graduation Analyst BORNBLUM JUDAIC STUDIES SHAUL BAR , Ph.D., Assistant Professor STEPHEN D. BENIN , Ph.D., Associate Professor JACOB ROSS , Ph.D., Professor and Bornblum Chair of Excellence in Judaic Studies FACULTY COUNCIL FRANK BARTON , Ph.D., School of Accountancy JUDITH BROWN , M.S., Management Information Systems and Decision Sciences SHERRY BRYAN-HAGGE , M.S., M.Arch., Engineering Technology ROBERT CRAWFORD , J.D., Ed.D., Counseling and Personnel Services CAROL CROWN , Ph.D., Art AMY DIETRICH , Ed.D., Curriculum and Instruction JOSEPH HAWES , Ph.D., History MEL HUMPHREYS , Re.D., Health, Physical Education, and Recreation RICHARD JANIKOWSKI , J.D., Criminology and Criminal Justice WALTER KIRKPATRICK , Ph.D., Theatre and Communication Arts MARJORIE LUTTRELL , Ph.D., School of Nursing THOMAS MENDINA , M.L.S., M.A., MSU Libraries LEWIS O'KELLY , M.S., Physics MARS PERTL , Ph.D., Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate CECIL (PETE) SHUGART , Ph.D., Physics RONALD SPEILBERGER , M.S., Journalism UNIVERSITY HONORS PROGRAM PHYLLIS G. BETTS , Ph.D., Director PHYLLIS G. BETTS , Ph.D., (1990) Affiliated Faculty, Department of Sociology: B.A., 1972, Southern Illinois University; M.A., 1974, Ph.D., 1978, University of Chicago FACULTY ADVISORY COUNCIL WALTER R. BROWN , Ph.D., History CHARLES V. CAMP , Ph.D., Civil Engineering AMY P. DIETRICH , Ed.D., Curriculum and Instruction JULIA A. HEATH , Ph.D., Economics LARRY W. HOUK , Ph.D., Chemistry LESLEY FERRIS , Ph.D., Theatre and Communication Arts INDEPENDENT DEPARTMENTS LIBRARIESLESTER J. POURCIAU, JR. , Director HARRIET SEMES ALEXANDER (1977) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1971, Arkansas State University; M.A., 1972, Memphis State University; M.L.S., 1974, University of Illinois ELIZABETH S. BAUR (1988) , Assistant Professor: B.M., 1970, M.M., 1974, University of Cincinnati; M.L.S., 1988, Vanderbilt University RITA BROADWAY (1975) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1965, Northeast Louisiana University; M.S.L.S., 1971, Louisiana State Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]University; M.A., 1983, Memphis State University KIT S. BYUNN (1973) , Assistant Professor: B.A. 1962, National Chengchi University; M.A., 1967, Appalachian State University; M.S., 1979, Memphis State University FRANCISCA CO (1985) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1969, University of Santo Thomas; M.A., 1982, Specialist Certificate, 1988, University of Wisconsin-Madison BARBARA ANN DENTON (1974) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1961, University of Southern Mississippi; M.S., 1964, Louisiana State University; M.B.A., 1980, Memphis State University IAN M. EDWARD (1973) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1968, M.S., 1972, Florida State University; M.B.A., 1980, Memphis State University JOHN EDWARD EVANS (1980) , Associate Professor: B.A., 1974, Kansas Wesleyan; M.S., 1977, University of Illinois, Ed.D., 1989, Memphis State University MARY K. FREILICH (1985) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1970, M.A., 1971, Purdue University; M.L.S., 1982, State University of New York-Albany ANNELLE R. HUGGINS (1981) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1969, Central State University; M.L.S., 1970, Vanderbilt University; M.Ed., 1975, Texas A&M University ROBERT T. IVEY (1987) , Assistant Professor: A.B., 1966, M.A., 1968, Ph.D., 1973, M S.L.S., 1976, University of North Carolina- Chapel Hill ROSS M. JOHNSON (1982) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1976, Memphis State University; M.L.S., 1979, Vanderbilt University MARGARET R. LAMBERT (1994) , Instructor: B.A., 1983, Centenary College; M.L.S., 1992, Indiana University JOYCE A. McKlBBEN (1979) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1971, Eckerd College; M.A.L.S., 1972, University of Kentucky; M.A. 1979, University of Florida GUY THOMAS MENDINA (1980) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1967, M.L.S., 1978, University of Texas at Austin; M.A., 1990, Memphis State University ANNA BRUCE NEAL (1980) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1973, University of Kentucky; M.L.S., 1978, Vanderbilt University; M.M., 1986, Memphis State University PAMELA RAE PALMER (1973) , Associate Professor: B.A.E., 1970, University of Mississippi; M.S., 1972, Louisiana State University; M.A., 1978, Ed.D., 1985, Memphis State University ELIZABETH H. PARK (1983) , Assistant Professor: A.B., 1966, Stanford University; M.L.S., 1972, State University of New York at Buffalo; M.S. 1989, Memphis State University LESTER J. POURCIAU, JR. (1970) , Professor, Director: B.A., 1962, M.S., 1964, Louisiana State University, Ph.D., 1975, Indiana University MARTHA JANE QUALLS (1979) , Assistant Professor: B.S., 1969, Memphis State University; M.L.S., 1978, Vanderbilt University; M.A., 1983, Memphis State University NORMA JANELL RUDOLPH (1979) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1970, M.A., 1972, Memphis State University, M.L.S., 1979, Vanderbilt University PHILIP M. SMITH (1982) , Associate Professor: B.M.E., 1970, B.M., 1972, M.A., 1976, University of Kansas; M.L.S., 1981, Ph.D., 1987, Florida State University ODIE HENDERSON TOLBERT, JR. (1969) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1962, LeMoyne-Owen College; M.A., 1969, Northern lIlinois University; Advanced Certificate Black Studies Librarianship, 1973, Fisk University ELZA ANN VILES (1980) , Associate Professor: B.M., 1967, M.A., 1970, University of Tennessee; M.S.L.S., 1971, University of North Carolina; Ph.D., 1983, Bryn Mawr College SAUNDRA WADE WILLIAMS (1980) , Assistant Professor: B.A., 1967, University of Arkansas; M.L.S., 1977, Vanderbilt University; M.A.P.A., 1985, Memphis State University Faculty and 12:03:14 PM]RESEARCH AND SERVICES DONALD R. FRANCESCHETTI , Ph.D., Interim Vice Provost for Research EDWARD L. BLEIBERG , Ph.D., Director of Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology LEWIS B. COONS , Ph.D., Director of Electron Microscopy Center CHARLES CRAWFORD , Ph.D., Director of Oral History JAMES DORMAN , Ph.D., Executive Director of Center for Earthquake Research and Information JOHN GNUSCHKE , Ph.D., Director of Center for Manpower Studies; Bureau of Business and Economic Research ARTHUR C. GRAESSER , Ph.D., Director of Institute for Intelligent Systems STANLEY HYLAND , Ph.D., Director of Center for Voluntary Action Research BENWARI L. KEDIA , Ph.D., Director of Wang Center for International Business MICHAEL L. KENNEDY , Ph.D., Director of Edward J. Meeman Biological Field Station ROBERT C. KLESGES , Ph.D., Director of Prevention Center MARTIN E. LIPINSKI , Ph.D., Director of Transportation Studies Institute; Director of Center for River Studies CHARLES J. LONG , Ph.D., Director of MSU-UT Center for Neuropsychology and Evoked Potential MAURICE I. MENDEL , Ph.D., Director of Memphis Speech and Hearing Center PATRICIA H. MURRELL , Ed.D., Director of Center for the Study of Higher Education THOMAS J. NENON , Ph.D., Director Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities EARL E. PEARSON, JR. , M.U.R., Director of Regional Economic Development Center THOMAS A. RAKES , Ph.D., Director of Research and Development for College of Education WINSOR C. SCHMIDT , LL.M., Director of Center for Health Services Research JOHN W. SMITH , Ph.D., Director Groundwater Institute PEGGY VANCO , M.Ed., Director of Research Support Services LYNN W. WEBER , Ph.D., Director of Center for Research on Women 1996-97 Tentative 12:03:16 PM]1996-97 TENTATIVE CALENDAR This calendar is tentative, and students should check the 1996-97 Undergraduate Catalog and the Schedule of Classes for possible changes and/or additions. FALL SEMESTER 1996 AUGUST 19-23: FALL 1996 Regular Registration and Drop/Add. For detailed dates and times, see the Schedule of Classes. AUGUST 26: Classes begin. AUGUST 29: Last day to add or to register for Fall 1996 courses. SEPTEMBER 2: Holiday: Labor Day. SEPTEMBER 25: Last day for removing Summer Session "Incomplete" grades. OCTOBER 14: Last day to drop courses. Last day to withdraw from the university. NOVEMBER 27: Last day for making application to the dean of the appropriate undergraduate college for degrees to be conferred in May 1997. NOVEMBER 28-DECEMBER 1: Holiday: Thanksgiving. DECEMBER 4: Classes end. DECEMBER 5: Study Day.DECEMBER 6-12: Final examinations.DECEMBER 14: Commencement.SPRING SEMESTER 1997 JANUARY 7-10: SPRING 1996 Regular Registration and Drop/Add. For detailed dates and times see the Schedule of Classes. JANUARY 13: Classes begin. JANUARY 16: Last day to add or to register for Spring 1997 courses. JANUARY 20: Holiday: Martin Luther King's Birthday. JANUARY 28: Last day for removing Fall "Incomplete" grades. MARCH 10: Last day to drop courses. Last day to withdraw from the university. MARCH 16-23: Spring Break. MARCH 21: University offices will be closed for Spring Holiday. APRIL 9: Last day for making application to the dean of the appropriate undergraduate college for degrees to be conferred in August 1997. APRIL 30: Classes end. Faculty convocation. MAY 1: Study Day.MAY 2-8: Final examinations.MAY 9: Commencement.FIRST SUMMER TERM 1997 MAY 29-30: SUMMER 1997 Regular Registration and Drop/Add. For detailed dates and times, see the Schedule of Classes. JUNE 2: Classes begin. JUNE 3: Last day to add or to register for First Term courses. JUNE 17: Last day to drop First Summer Term courses. Last day for First Summer Term students to withdraw. JUNE 23: Last day for removing Spring Semester "Incomplete" grades. JULY 2: First Summer Term classes end. JULY 3: First Summer Term final examinations. JULY 4: Holiday: Independence Day. 1996-97 Tentative 12:03:16 PM]SECOND SUMMER TERM 1997 JULY 7: SECOND SUMMER 1997 Regular Registration and Drop/Add. For detailed dates and times, see the Schedule of Classes. JULY 8: Second Summer Term classes begin. Last day to add or to register for Second Summer Term courses. JULY 17: Last day for making application to the dean of the appropriate undergraduate college for degrees to be conferred in December 1997. JULY 23: Last day to drop Second Summer Term courses. Last day for Second Summer Term students to withdraw from the university. AUGUST 7: Second Summer Term classes end. AUGUST 8: Second Summer Term final examinations. AUGUST 10: Commencement.EXTENDED SUMMER TERM 1997 MAY 29-30: SUMMER 1997 Regular Registration and Drop/Add. For detailed dates and times, see the Schedule of Classes. JUNE 2: Classes begin. JUNE 3: Last day to add or to register for Extended Term courses. JUNE 23: Last day for removing Spring Semester "Incomplete" grades. JULY 3-6: Independence Day and Summer Break. JULY 7: Last day to drop Extended Summer Term courses. Last day for Extended Summer Term students to withdraw from the university. JULY 7: Second Summer 1997 Regular Registration and Drop/Add. For details, see the Schedule of Classes. AUGUST 7: Extended Summer Term classes end. AUGUST 8: Extended Summer Term final examinations. AUGUST 10: Commencement. The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES William Carpenter Ph.D., Dean Room 219, Mitchell Hall PURPOSESThe College of Arts and Sciences has three distinct functions within the framework of the university. 1) Its primary function is to offer a strong liberal arts program designed to help the students prepare themselves for life in their own cultural setting by acquiring the means and desire to continue the processes of intellectual development and character formation throughout their lives. "The purpose of education," wrote John Stuart Mill, "is to make capable and cultivated human beings." "Education has for its object the formation of character," wrote Herbert Spencer. We believe that people are people, no matter what their careers, and that if we can help people to become more capable and sensible, they will have better careers and lives. It is our belief that the best preparation for any profession or vocation is a thorough foundation in those major fields of human interest, which are included in the humanities, the natural sciences, and the social sciences. A program of liberal studies at The University of Memphis aims to provide the students with a store of factual knowledge, to introduce them to varying sets of principles, to stimulate them to think about and evaluate facts and principles, and to encourage them to order their own affairs and those of their society with the talent, insight, and discrimination they develop. 2) The College of Arts and Sciences offers this kind of education to the candidates for its own degrees, and to the students of other colleges of the university, all of whose degree plans call for courses in the arts and sciences.3) The college offers preparatory courses for students interested in careers in medicine, dentistry, nursing, teaching, law and other professions; specific preprofessional programs, designed to prepare students to qualify for admission to professional schools, are available. ORGANIZATION OF THE COLLEGE DepartmentsThe College of Arts and Sciences comprises eighteen departments: Anthropology, Biology, Chemistry, Criminology and Criminal Justice, English, Foreign Languages and Literatures, Geography and Planning, Geological Sciences, History, Mathematical Sciences, Philosophy, Physics, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology and Social Work; Aerospace Studies, Military Science, and Naval Science. Requirements for the majors and minors offered by these departments are listed in this section under Departmental Requirements for Majors and Minors. CONCENTRATION GROUPS The various offerings of the eighteen departments of The College of Arts and Sciences are organized into four concentration groups: HUMANITIES: English, French, German, Greek, history, Italian, Latin, mathematics, philosophy, psychology, Russian, Spanish. NATURAL SCIENCES: biology, chemistry, geology, physical geography, mathematics, physics. SOCIAL SCIENCES: anthropology, criminal justice, economics, geography (other than physical), history, philosophy, political science, psychology, sociology. The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]ROTC PROGRAMS: Aerospace Studies, Military Science, Naval Science. RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS University residence requirements are explained in detail in the Graduation from the University section. A transfer student in The College of Arts and Sciences must earn at least 6 semester hours in residence in the major subject and at least 3 semester hours in the minor. These credits may be earned only through regular class enrollment for a letter grade. PRE-PROFESSIONAL TRAINING Standing committees of the faculty are available to advise students interested in preparing for careers in various professional areas. Committee members representing departments of the university in which pre- professional training is given advise students concerning specific programs required by the various professional schools. Pre-Medical--The Health Science Professions Advisory Office, located in the Dean's Office, offers advising and career information to students planning on applying to the following health-professional schools: medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, optometry, veterinary medicine, nursing and allied health fields including cytotechnology, dental hygiene, medical record administration, medical technology, occupational therapy and physical therapy. Pre-Law--In general, accredited law schools have not adopted specific requirements for pre-law education; they do, however, emphasize certain courses as being conducive to the development of the broad cultural background necessary for the successful study of law. Students enrolling in The College of Arts and Sciences and interested in applying to law school should see the Pre-Law Advisor for further information. Teacher Preparation--Students who wish to prepare for teaching careers in the secondary schools of Tennessee will be expected to complete a baccalaureate degree with a major in the intended teaching area, followed by a fifth-year Master of Arts in Teaching degree program through the College of Education. Additional information on licensure requirements may be obtained from the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Activities in Arts and Sciences or the Office of Teacher Education in the College of Education.ACADEMIC PROGRAMS DepartmentMajorClick below for Major Requirements Click on Tiger Paw for Course Descriptions Concentrationwithin Major Degree Offered Click below for Degree RequirementsAnthropologyAnthropologyNONEBachelor of Arts (B.A.)BiologyBiologyNONEBachelor of Science (B.S.) ChemistryChemistryNONEBachelor of Science (B.S.) Bachelor of Science in Chemistry(B.S.Ch.)Criminology and Criminal Justice Criminology and Criminal Justice NONEBachelor of Arts (B.A.)EconomicsEconomicsNONEBachelor of Arts (B.A.) The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]EnglishEnglish(1) Literature(2) Creative Writing (3) Professional Writing (4) Language and Linguistics (5) English as a Second LanguageBachelor of Arts (B.A.)Foreign Languages and LiteraturesForeign Languages With single language concentration from the first five or multiple language concentration from total list (1) French (2) German (3) *Russian (4) Spanish (5) Latin (6) GreekBachelor of Arts (B.A.)Geography and PlanningGeography(1) Geographic Techniques (2) Environmental and Earth Science (3) Geography (4) Urban PlanningBachelor of Arts (B.A.)Bachelor of Science (B.S.) (5) MeteorologyBachelor of Science (B.S.) Geological SciencesGeological Sciences (1) Geology (2) GeophysicsBachelor of Science (B.S.) HistoryHistoryNONEBachelor of Arts (B.A.)Mathematical SciencesMathematical Sciences (1) Mathematics (2) StatisticsBachelor of Science (B.S.) Computer Science Computer ScienceBachelor of Science (B.S.) PhilosophyPhilosophyNONEBachelor of Arts (B.A.)PhysicsPhysicsNONEBachelor of Science (B.S.) Political Science Political Science NONEBachelor of Arts (B.A.)PsychologyPsychologyNONEBachelor of Arts (B.A.)Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Sociology and Social Work SociologyNONEBachelor of Arts (B.A.)Social Work NONEBachelor of Arts (B.A.)(1) AmericanForeign Policy The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]InterdepartmentalProgramsInternational Relations (2) WesternEurope (3) Latin America (4) Asia (5) Soviet Union (6) Africa and the Middle East Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)*A concentration in Russian requires a collateral foreign language concentration or a collateral major outside the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures. DEGREE REQUIREMENTS Degrees Offered The College of Arts and Sciences offers three degrees: the Bachelor of Arts, the Bachelor of Science, and the Bachelor of Science in Chemistry. Foreign Language Requirements The foreign language requirement for all degrees offered through the College of Arts and Sciences is as follows:Two courses in a single foreign language at or above the 2000 level. Beginning in the Fall of 1990, all students who have not successfully completed first year language courses at an accredited institution of higher education and who wish to enroll in 2201 (Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Russian, Spanish) will be required to take the placement test given by the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures. Students presenting a language to meet university admission requirements cannot receive credit for 1101 in that language. For information about the dates and place of placement tests, contact the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures. A student already having proficiency in a foreign language taught at The University of Memphis should enroll in a course at the level for which the student is qualified. This course can best be determined by taking the placement test given at the beginning of each semester. (Detailed information is available from the chair of the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures.) No credit is granted on the basis of the placement test. However, students whose first college-level language course is 2201 or higher and who pass this course with a grade of C or better may apply for Credit by Course Placement. The applicable fees are listed in the Miscellaneous Fees of the catalog. Students wishing such credit must make written application to the chair of the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures (application forms are available from the department). This regulation shall apply only to the lower division, and credit gained in this manner shall not exceed 12 semester hours in any one language. For additional information, see Credit by Course Placement in Section 5 of this catalog. Once a student begins with a lower-division course, credit in all remaining higher-numbered courses in the lower division must be earned in sequence, without skipping. For example, students who begin with LATN 1101 cannot skip LATN 1102 and enroll in LATN 2201. This regulation will also apply to a student whose mother tongue is not English, with the following modifications: lower-division credit in the native language will be given when the student has successfully completed the English composition requirement for graduation (see Graduation from the University, for details) and has proven proficiency in the native language to the satisfaction of the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures. The student must make written application to the chair of the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures. The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]Bachelor of Arts To qualify for the Bachelor of Arts degree the student must complete a minimum of 132 semester hours with a quality point average of 2.0. Of the 132 semester hours required, no more than 42 semester hours in any one subject will be counted toward a degree. At least 42 semester hours must be in courses from the upper division. Detailed requirements are as follows: GENERAL EDUCATION AND B.A. DEGREE English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101, 1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication (3 hours): COMM 2381 Foreign Language (6 hours): Two courses in a single foreign language at or above the 2000 level. Mathematics (6-10 hours): MATH 1181 and 1182, or MATH 2000, or 1312, or 1321; plus one additional course chosen from any MATH course numbered 1211 or higher, or PHIL 1611. Literary Heritage (6 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202 plus one course chosen from: CLAS 3412, 3413, 3414; ENGL 3100-09, 3210, 3211, 3212, 3213, 3214, 3220, 3221, 3222, 3224, 3321, 3322, 3323, 4231, 4232, 4233, 4234, 4241, 4242, 4251, 4252, 4321, 4322, 4323, 4341, 4342, 4371, 4411, 4412, 4423, 4424, 4441, 4451, 4461; FREN 3411, 4412; GERM 3411, 3412, 4443, 4451, 4465; GREK 3111, 3511, 3911, 4441; LALI 4010, 4493; LATN 3111, 3211, 3912, 4411, 4711; RUSS 3441, 3442, 3443; SPAN 4410, 4431, 4432, 4510, 4561, 4562; THEA 4582. Fine Arts Heritage (6 hours--must select two different disciplines): One course from: ART 1101, COMM 1851, DANC 1151, MUHL 1101, THEA 1551; plus one course from the previous list or from: ART 2101, THEA 4551, 4552; DANC 3101, MUHL 4800. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302, PHIL 1102, POLS 1102, UNIV 2860, 3581. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one other course from the following: ANTH 3282, GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881; POLS 4212, POLS 4405; SOCI 3422. Social Science (12 hours): One course from list A, one course from list A or list B, and two courses from lists A, B, or C (no more than 6 hours from any one discipline): A. ANTH 1200, CJUS 2110, ECON 2110, GEOG 1301, GEOG 1401, POLS 2301, POLS 2501, PSYC 2201, SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/CSED 2101, UNIV 2304. B. ANTH 1100, CJUS 1100, ECON 2120, POLS 1100, PSYC 1101, SOCI 1111. C. COMM 1780, CJUS 3510; GEOG 3430, 4304, 4305, 4313, 4324, 4431, HIST 4871; JOUR 1700; POLS 3213, 3216, 3506; SOCI 1112, 3401, 3432, 3701, 3831, 3860, 4442, 4631, 4923. Natural Science (11-12 hours): One sequence from list A plus one course in a different science chosen from list A or list B: NOTE: Not more than two courses may be taken in the geography/geology area to meet this requirement. A. BIOL 1051, 1052, 1061, 1062; BIOL 1151, 1152, 1161, 1162; CHEM 1101, 1102; CHEM 1131, 1121, 1132, 1122; GEOG 1001, 1011, 1002, 1022; GEOL 1101, 1103; PHYS 1001, 1010, 1002, 1020; PHYS 2003, 2510, 2004, 2520; UNIV 1610,1611. B. GEOG 3221, 4111, 4121, 4131, 4201, 4211; PHYS 2001, 2110. Fitness and Wellness (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002; THEA The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). NOTE: The College of Arts and Sciences accepts a maximum of two semester hours in physical activity courses toward the fulfillment of its degree requirements. Computation Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as computation intensive and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the General Education mathematics requirement.Writing Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as writing intensive and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the General Education English composition requirement. Integrative (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as integrative and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of General Education English composition, oral communication, and mathematics requirements. Computer Literacy: This requirement may be satisfied by taking COMP 1200, by a course of study approved by the dean, or by passing the university-approved computer literacy examination. MAJOR Completion of requirements for a major in one of the following disciplines: anthropology, criminology and criminal justice, economics, English, foreign languages, geography, history, philosophy, political science, psychology, sociology, social work, or international relations. ELECTIVES To bring the total to 132 semester hours. Bachelor of Science The Bachelor of Science degree may be awarded only to students majoring in one of the following disciplines: biology, chemistry, computer science, geography, geological sciences, mathematical sciences, physics, or psychology. Students majoring in geography or psychology (for the Bachelor of Science degree) must minor in either biology, chemistry, computer science, geological sciences, mathematical sciences, or physics. The minor requirement does not apply to geography majors who fulfill the Meteorology Concentration or to geography majors in the Environmental and Earth Science Concentration who opt to take 24 credit hours in natural sciences, 8 hours from each of the following: biology, chemistry and physics. To qualify for the degree of Bachelor of Science, the student must complete a minimum of 132 semester hours with a quality point average of 2.0. Of the 132 semester hours required, no more than 42 semester hours in any one subject will be counted toward a degree. At least 42 semester hours must be in courses from the upper division. Detailed requirements are as follows: GENERAL EDUCATION AND B.S. DEGREE English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101, 1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication (3 hours): COMM 2381. Foreign Language (6 hours): Two courses in a single foreign language at or above the 2000 level. Mathematics (6-8 hours): MATH 1312 or 1321, plus one additional course chosen from any MATH course The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]numbered 1211 or higher, or PHIL 1611. Literary Heritage (6 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202 plus one course chosen from: CLAS 3412, 3413, 3414; ENGL 3100-09, 3210, 3211, 3212, 3213, 3214, 3220, 3221, 3222, 3224, 3321, 3322, 3323, 4231, 4232, 4233, 4234, 4241, 4242, 4251, 4252, 4321, 4322, 4323, 4341, 4342, 4371, 4411, 4412, 4423, 4424, 4441, 4451, 4461; FREN 3411, 4412; GERM 3411, 3412, 4443, 4451, 4465; GREK 3111, 3511, 3911, 4441, LALI 4010, 4493; LATN 3111, 3211, 3912, 4411, 4711; RUSS 3441, 3442, 3443; SPAN 4410, 4431, 4432, 4510, 4561, 4562; THEA 4582. Fine Arts Heritage (6 hours): One course from: ART 1101, COMM 1851, DANC 1151, MUHL 1101, THEA 1551; plus one course in a different discipline from the previous list or from: ART 2101, THEA 4551/THEA 4552, DANC 3101, MUHL 4800. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302, PHIL 1102, POLS 1102, UNIV 2860, 3581. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one other course from the following: ANTH 3282, GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881, POLS 4212, POLS 4405; SOCI 3422. Social Science (9 hours): One course from list A, one course from list A or list B, and one course from lists A, B, or C (no more than 6 hours from any one discipline): A. (Global Perspective): ANTH 1200, CJUS 2110, ECON 2110, GEOG 1301, GEOG 1401, POLS 2301, POLS 2501, PSYC 2201, SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/ CSED 2101, UNIV 2304. B. ANTH 1100, CJUS 1100, ECON 2120, POLS 1100, PSYC 1101, SOCI 1111. C. COMM 1780; CJUS 3510; GEOG 3430, 4304, 4305, 4313, 4324, 4431; HIST 4871; JOUR 1700; POLS 3213, 3216, 3506; SOCI 1112, 3401, 3432, 3701, 3831, 3860, 4442, 4631, 4923. Human Studies (3 hours): One upper division course from outside the major, chosen from the following disciplines: anthropology, art, communications, criminal justice, economics, geography (excluding those classified as natural science below), history, journalism, literature, music, philosophy, political science, psychology, sociology, theatre. Natural Science (11-12 hours): One of the following sequences outside the major: BIOL 1051, 1052,1061, 1062; BIOL 1151, 1152, 1161, 1162; CHEM 1101, 1102; CHEM 1131, 1121, 1132, 1122; GEOG 1001, 1011, 1002, 1022; GEOL 1101, 1103; PHYS 1001, 1010, 1002, 1020; PHYS 2003, 2510, 2004, 2520; UNIV 1610, 1611; plus one course from a different science, chosen from biology, chemistry; GEOG 3221, 4111, 4121, 4131, 4201, 4211; geological sciences; physics. NOTE: Not more than two courses may be taken in the geography/geology area to meet this requirement. Fitness and Wellness (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002; THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). NOTE: The College of Arts and Sciences accepts a maximum of two semester hours in physical activity courses toward the fulfillment of its degree requirements. Computation Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as computation intensive and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the General Education mathematics requirement.Writing Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as writing intensive and The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the General Education English composition requirement.Integrative (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as integrative and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of General Education English composition, oral communication, and mathematics requirements. Computer Literacy: This requirement may be satisfied by taking COMP 1200, by a course of study approved by the dean, or by passing the university-approved computer literacy examination. MAJOR Completion of requirements for a major in one of the following disciplines: biology, chemistry, computer science, geography, geological sciences, mathematical sciences, physics, or psychology. MINOR Students majoring in geography or psychology (for a Bachelor of Science degree) must complete a minor in one of the following: biology, chemistry, computer science, geological sciences, mathematical sciences, or physics. The minor requirement does not apply to geography majors who fulfill the Meteorology Concentration or to geography majors in the Environmental and Earth Science Concentration who opt to take 24 credit hours in natural sciences, 8 hours from each of the following: biology, chemistry and physics. ELECTIVES To bring the total to 132 semester hours. Bachelor of Science in Chemistry To qualify for the Bachelor of Science in Chemistry degree, the student must complete a minimum of 132 semester hours with a quality point average of 2.0. Of the 132 semester hours required for graduation, at least 42 semester hours must be in courses from the upper division. Detailed requirements are as follows: English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101,1102 with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): COMM 2381. Foreign Language (6 hours): Two courses in a single foreign language at or above the 2000 level. Mathematics (12 hours): MATH 1321, 2321, 2322. Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202. Fine Arts Heritage (3 hours): ART 1101, COMM 1851, DANC 1151, MUHL 1101, THEA 1551. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302, PHIL 1102, POLS 1102, UNIV 2860, 3581 American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one other course from the following: ANTH 3282; GEOG 3401; HIST 2601, 2602, 3863, 3900, 4851, 4881; POLS 4212, 4405; SOCI 3422. Social Science (6 hours): Select one course from list A and one from list A or B: A. (Global Perspective): ANTH 1200; CJUS 2110; ECON 2110; GEOG 1301, 1401; POLS 2301, 2501; PSYC 2201; SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/CSED 2101; UNIV 2304. B. ANTH 1100, CJUS 1100, ECON 2120, POLS 1100, PSYC 1101, SOCI 1111. Natural Science (Included in the Chemistry and Physics requirements) The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]Chemistry (43 hours): CHEM 1131,1121,1132,1122; 3201, 3211, 3301, 3302, 3311, 3312, 3402, 3411, 3412, 4101, 4111, 4604, 4911; three semester hours in 4991, 4992, or 4993, and four additional hours in senior chemistry courses. No more than three hours of research (CHEM 4991, 4992, 4993) may be counted toward the chemistry requirements. Physics (8 hours): PHYS 2003, 2510, 2004, 2520; or 2001, 2110, 2002, 2120 (by permission) Fitness and Wellness (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002; THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100,1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100,1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). NOTE: The College of Arts and Sciences accepts a maximum of two semester hours in physical activity courses toward the fulfillment of its degree requirements. Computation Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as computation intensive and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the General Education mathematics requirement. CHEM 3201-3211 may be counted. Writing Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as writing intensive and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the General Education English composition requirement. CHEM 4993 may be counted. Integrative (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as integrative and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of General Education English composition, oral communication, and mathematics requirements. Computer Literacy: This requirement may be satisfied by taking COMP 1200, by a course of study approved by the dean, or by passing the university-approved computer literacy examination. COURSES NOT APPLICABLE TOWARD B.A., B.S., AND B.S.Ch. DEGREES CHEM 1100 and MATH 0990 may not be used to fulfill the 132-hour minimum required for degrees offered through The College of Arts and Sciences. However, credit hours in these courses are included in the total hours earned and in the quality point average. DEPARTMENTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MAJORS AND MINORS Listed below are the specific course requirements for all majors and minors offered in The College of Arts and Sciences. A minimum grade of C is required in every course applicable toward a major or minor (including corequisites), except in beginning courses and in sophomore English. Every student should be aware that the mere completion of courses outlined below with a grade of C or better does not guarantee classification as a major or minor in the discipline concerned; the student must be recommended by the chair of the department in which the major or minor is sought. If, in the opinion of the chair, the quality of the student's work is not high enough, additional work, the repetition of courses, or other evidences of acceptable scholarship may be required. ANTHROPOLOGYThe Major: 30 semester hours in anthropology courses including ANTH 1100,1200, 3200, 4065; and 18 additional semester hours, at least 6 of which must be at the 4000 level. The Minor: 18 semester hours in anthropology courses including ANTH 1100,1200, 3200, and 4065. The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]Honors Program: The Department of Anthropology offers an honors program in anthropology to the superior anthropology student who desires a more intensive approach to and knowledge of the discipline, a deeper understanding of research skills, and an opportunity for original criticism and analysis. To be eligible a student must (a) have the approval of the Departmental Honors Committee, (b) be an anthropology major, (c) have attained at least junior standing, (d) have completed successfully Anth 1100, 1200, and one upper- division anthropology course, (e) maintained a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.00 in overall studies, (f) maintained a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.25 in anthropology, (g) completion of four honors courses in anthropology (at least one of which must be an independent study culminating in a research paper/thesis or research report) and a minimum of six hours in honors courses outside anthropology. Those students who complete the program and the regular college requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred, "With Honors in Anthropology." Moreover the student's diploma and the record at The University of Memphis will reflect this accomplishment. Details of the program are available at the Department of Anthropology office. BIOLOGYStudents must earn a grade of at least C in all biology courses applied toward the major or the minor and in all required chemistry courses. Students must complete BIOL 1151, 1152, 1161 and 1162, before enrolling in any upper division courses. The Major: (52 hours) 36 hours in biology courses and 16 hours in chemistry courses as outlined: BIOL 1151, 1152, 1161, 1162, 3050, 3072, 3073; one of BIOL 3030 or 3230 or 3730; one of BIOL 3130 or 3551; and 3555; 11 additional upper division hours in biology courses approved by the department; and CHEM 1121, 1122, 1131, 1132, 3301, 3302, 3311, and 3312. The Minor: 18 semester hours in biology courses including BIOL 1151, 1152, 1161, 1162 and 10 upper division hours. CHEMISTRY(The requirements listed below are for majors and minors for the Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science degrees; for detailed requirements for the Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, a professional degree, see degree requirements described earlier in this section.) CHEMISTRYNOTE: Students must complete CHEM 1121, 1122, 1131, 1132 before enrolling in any upper division course applied toward the major or the minor. The Major (50-52 hours): 32 hours in chemistry courses, 10 - 12 hours in mathematics courses, and 8 hours in physics courses as outlined below: CHEM 1121, 1122, 1131, 1132, 3201 [C], 3211, 3301, 3302, 3311, 3312, and sufficient additional upper division semester hours. No more than three credit hours of research (CHEM 4991, 4992, 4993 [W]) may be counted toward the chemistry requirements.MATH 1321, and two of the following courses: MATH 2321, 2322, 4611, COMP 4001. PHYS 2003/2510, 2004/2520 (or 2001/2110, 2002/2120 if approved by the chair of the Department of Chemistry). The Minor: 20 semester hours in chemistry courses, including CHEM 1121,1122,1131,1132, 3301, 3302, 3311, 3312, and four upper division semester hours. Honors Program: The department collaborates with the University Honors Program, where majors may earn Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors with an Emphasis in Chemistry. Work in the major consists of a special project and a discipline based Honors thesis. For additional requirements and more information on Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors, see the description under the University Honors Program entry in the Independent Programs section of this catalog. COMPUTER SCIENCE The Major: 58 to 60 semester hours consisting of MATH 1321, 2321 2701, 3242 [C], 4614; COMP 1900, 2150, 3160, 3230, 3420, 4030, 4040 [W], 4270 and an elective sequence that is a coherent package of 17-19 hours of computer-oriented courses designed by the student and the faculty advisor and approved by the Computer Science faculty. PHYS 2003/2510, 2004/2520 are required for the natural science requirement sequence, and ECON 2120 is strongly recommended as part of the social science requirement for the B.S. degree. This major is offered through the Department of Mathematical Sciences. The Minor: 21 semester hours in computer science courses, including COMP 1900, 2150, 3230, 3420 and 9 additional upper division semester hours. The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]CRIMINOLOGY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE The Major: 36 semester hours of criminology and criminal justice including CJUS 1100, 3128, 3129 [C], 3510, 3521, 3541 and 4110 [I, W], plus either (1) 15 additional upper division hours in criminology and criminal justice, or (2) 12 additional upper division hours in criminology and criminal justice and 2110 as approved by the departmental advisor. The Minor: 18 hours in criminal justice courses including CJUS 1100, 3521, 3541, and 3510. Honors Program: The department collaborates with the University Honors Program, in which majors may earn Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors with an Emphasis in Criminology and Criminal Justice. Work in the major consists of a special project and a discipline-based Honors thesis. For additional requirements and more information on Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors, see the description under the University Honors Program entry in the Independent Programs section of this catalog. ECONOMICSThe Major: 30 semester hours, including ECON 2110, 2120, 3310, 3320, 4920, and 15 additional upper division semester hours in economics courses as approved by the department advisor. The Minor: 18 semester hours in economics courses, including ECON 2110, 2120, and twelve additional upper division hours as approved by the department advisor. Honors Program: All students who receive a grade of B or better in ECON 2110 or 2120 honors sections are eligible for the honors program. Entry to the program can also be obtained through the recommendation of a member of the faculty to the Economics Departmental Honors Committee. A student must maintain an average grade of at least 3.25 in economics to continue in the program and must have an average grade of 3.5 or better in economics to graduate with honors in economics. Honor students take special courses during the junior and senior years, particularly the honors sections of ECON 3310 and 3320, and write a senior research paper. Those students who complete the program and the regular college requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred "With Honors in Economics." Moreover, the student's diploma and the record at The University of Memphis will reflect this accomplishment. Details of the program are available in the Economics Department office. ENGLISHThe Major: 36 semester hours in English courses (chosen with approval of departmental advisor), including ENGL 1101, 1102; 2201 or 2202; 3210, 3220, and 3321; one course from ENGL 3501, 3511, 3701, 4501, 4604, 4605; and completion of the requirements in one of the following concentrations: Literature: 12 semester hours in courses chosen from ENGL 3100-3323, 3701, 4001-4461; 4511 or 4711; 4900 (only in literature); and 3 upper division elective hours in English courses. Creative Writing: 12 semester hours in courses chosen from ENGL 3605, 4601, 4603, 4604, 4605, 4900 (only in writing); and 3 upper division elective hours in English courses. Professional Writing: 12 semester hours in courses chosen from ENGL 3601, 3602, 3604, 4100-09 (only topics in professional writing), 4602, 4606-4616, 4630, 4900 (only in writing); and 3 upper division elective hours in English courses. Language and Linguistics: 12 semester hours in courses chosen from ENGL 3501, 3511, 3521, 4501-4521, 4540-4550, 4900 (only in language); and 3 upper division elective hours in English courses. English As A Second Language: 12 semester hours in courses chosen from ENGL 4530, 4531, 4532, 4900 (only in ESL) and a maximum of 6 semester hours in courses listed under the Language and Linguistics concentration above; and 3 upper division elective hours in English courses. NOTE: No more than a total of six (6) hours in ENGL 3100-09, ENGL 4100-09, and ENGL 4900 may be applied to the English major. Students should see English advisors, who will explain the advantages of the various concentrations and assist students in developing an appropriate program. The Minor: 12 upper division semester hours in English. The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]NOTE: Students who wish to satisfy the requirements for both the English major and the endorsement to teach English in high school should consult the College of Education for licensure requirements. Students who intend to pursue graduate studies in English are strongly advised to elect courses that will ensure a comprehensive overview of the major figures and movements in British and American literature and of modern language theory. Honors Program: English majors are eligible to apply for admission to the program if they have a grade point average of 3.25 in their overall studies and in English. Honor students take special courses during the junior and senior years and write a senior research paper. Those students who complete the program and the regular college requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred "With Honors in English." Moreover, the student's diploma and the record at The University of Memphis will reflect this distinction. Details of the program are available at the English Department office. The department cooperates with the University Honors Program, where majors may earn Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors as described in the Independent Programs section of this catalog, in addition to Honors in English. ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES INTERDISCIPLINARY ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES MINOR The Interdisciplinary Environmental Studies Minor Program is intended to provide all students with the opportunity to obtain a broad- based knowledge of the environmental issues facing our planet, knowledge that spans both the biological-physical threats and solutions as well as behavioral-social-economic implications. One core course (INTD 2100-- Living in the Environment ) is required of all students. The Minor: The student must pass INTD 2100 with a grade of "C" or better and complete 5 additional environmentally related courses (15-20 semester hours) from the two groups of courses listed below as approved by the university's Environmental Research, Issues, and Programs Committee (ERIPC). At least 2 courses must be selected from each group and 5 courses from 4 different departments. GROUP 1: BIOLOGICAL-PHYSICAL EMPHASIS: BIOL 3050, 4002, 4050, 4055, 4100, 4450, 4604; CHEM 4001; CIVL 4143, 4144; GEOG 3221, 4201, 4231, 4251; GEOL 4342; INTD 4100-4110. GROUP 2: SOCIO-BEHAVIORAL EMPHASIS: ANTH 4111, 4255, 4381; ICL 4601; ECON 4260; JOUR 4830, PSYC 3501; RECR 3203; INTD 4120-4130. NOTE: If a faculty member wishes for a course such as a Special Topics course to be included in the Interdisciplinary Environmental Minor in a given semester, then, with the approval of the ERIPC, the course may be offered within the instructor's department or as either INTD 4100-4110 or INTD 4120, whichever is appropriate. Students taking ERIPC-approved courses that do not appear in the catalog will be given a letter to present to their graduation analyst indicating that those courses have been approved. Information pertaining to the minor and other environmental initiatives may be obtained in 213 Mitchell Hall (901-678-2253). FOREIGN LANGUAGES The Major: Successful completion of one of the following concentrations: (1) A single-language concentration in French, German, Latin, *Russian or **Spanish: 24 upper division semester hours. (2) A two-language concentration chosen from French, German, Greek, Latin, Russian, and Spanish: 27 upper division semester hours with a minimum of 9 semester hours in each language. (3) A three-language concentration: All three language concentrations require prior consultation with the approval of the department chair. Plans will normally include at least 33 upper division semester hours to include at least 12 semester hours in each of two languages plus approved course work in a third language. NOTE: Majors are encouraged to take Literary Criticism, LALI 4890, as an Integrative course. NOTE: With the approval of the Head of the Classics Section, up to 6 credit hours in upper division Classics courses may be applied toward a concentration in Greek or Latin. Any major in Foreign Languages may earn a collateral minor in International Business. These Foreign Language majors should take the following sequences of upper division courses: Advanced Conversation and Composition (6 hours) and the two courses for Commerce given by the individual languages. Students will have a minimum of six more credits to be taken from other upper division courses. The minor in International Business will have at least 18 semester hours within the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Notice that the courses listed in the Business and Economics section are all upper division and require corresponding lower division courses. Therefore, a minor will include, normally, 9 hours from this list and another 9 hours of lower division courses taken as The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]prerequisites.Please consult your advisor and the advisor of the International Business program regarding any matter concerning the curriculum program or graduation requirements. The Minor: 18 semester hours from A and B, below: A. Courses numbered 1102, 2201, and either 2202 or 2203 (or their equivalents) in the foreign language in which upper division hours are to be taken. B. 9 upper division semester hours in one of the following languages: French, German, Latin, Greek, Russian, or Spanish. *A concentration in Russian requires a collateral foreign language concentration or a collateral major outside the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures. **Students with a single-language concentration in Spanish must take SPAN 4410 and 4510. GEOGRAPHYThe Major: 35 semester hours in geography courses including one course from each of the core subject areas for a total of 20 hours and completion of the requirements in one of the following areas of concentration: Core Requirements: a. Environmental and Earth Science: GEOG 1001, 1011, 1002 and 1022 (8) b. Human: GEOG 1401 or 3430 (3) c. Regional: GEOG 1301 or any 43 - - numbered course (3) d. Cartography: GEOG 4503 (3) e. GEOG 4801(3) [I, W]. Concentrations: GEOGRAPHY: 15 semester hours of geography with a minimum of 12 upper division hours. ENVIRONMENTAL AND EARTH SCIENCE: 15 semester hours of geography with a minimum of 12 upper division hours selected from GEOG 3221, 4111, 4121, 4122, 4131, 4201, 4211, 4231, 4241, 4251. In lieu of a minor, students in this concentration may opt to take the following three science sequences (24 hours): BIOL 1151, 1152, 1161, and 1162. CHEM 1131, 1121, 1132, and 1122. PHYS 2110, 2001, 2120, and 2002. GEOGRAPHIC TECHNIQUES: 15 semester hours of geography with a minimum of 12 upper division hours selected from GEOG 3501, 4502, 4503, 4510, 4511, 4514, 4524, 4531. METEOROLOGY: a. Required core (20 semester hours): GEOG 4111, 4112, 4115[C], 4116, 4211, 4215; b. Guided electives (3-4 semester hours): one of the following: MATH 3391, 4611, PHYS 3011, 3111, 3112, 3510; c. General electives: 13-15 semester hours. In order to meet General Education requirements and to satisfy prerequisite course requirements, students must take MATH 1321, 2321, PHYS 2003, 2510. Students who select this concentration are not required to complete a minor for the B.S. degree. URBAN PLANNING: a. Required core (9 semester hours): GEOG 3451, 4431, 4551; b. Guided electives (6 semester hours): two of the following: GEOG 3430, 4201, 4231, 4442, 4443, 4531, 4700. The Minor: 20 semester hours in geography courses, at least 9 of which must be upper division hours. GEOLOGICAL SCIENCES The Major: Students must complete GEOL 1101, 3311, 3312, 3512 [C], and 4622 [I] and select either of the following concentrations:GEOLOGY: GEOL 1102, 3211 [W], 3313, 3712, and additional upper division semester hours as approved by the advisor to a total of 36 semester hours; CHEM 1121/1131,1122/1132; MATH 1321; PHYS 2001/2110, 2002/2120 or PHYS 2003/2510, 2004/2520. GEOPHYSICS: GEOP 4101, 4201, 4401 and additional upper division semester hours to total 36 semester hours, MATH 1321, 2321, 2322, 3391; PHYS 2003/2510, 2004/2520. The Minor: A minimum of 18 semester hours in geology courses, including GEOL 1102. Six of these hours must be selected from The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]upper division courses. HISTORYThe Major: 30 semester hours in history courses, including HIST 1301, 1302, 2601, 2602, and 18 additional upper division semester hours. Of the 18 upper division hours required for the major, a maximum of 12 may be taken in any one field (United States, Latin American, Ancient/Byzantine, European, Russian, Far Eastern, African). The Minor: 21 semester hours in history courses, including HIST 1301, 1302, 2601, 2602, and 9 additional upper division semester hours.Honors Program: History majors who have attained junior standing, successfully completed six semester hours of lower division history, and maintained a grade point average of at least 3.25 in overall studies and in history courses taken, are eligible for admission to the honors program in history. Students admitted to the program must take 18 hours of honors work, at least 12 of which must be taken in upper division history courses after admission to the departmental program. These 12 hours must include HIST 4003 and 4996. Those who successfully complete the program and the regular B.A. requirements will have their degree conferred "With Honors in History." The student's diploma and the record at The University of Memphis will be similarly endorsed. A detailed description of the program, together with application forms for admission, may be obtained in the History Department office. The department also collaborates with the University Honors Program, where history majors may earn Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors with an Emphasis in History. For more information on Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors, see the description under the University Honors Program entry in the Independent Programs section of this catalog. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS The International Relations program provides the opportunity to bring the knowledge of several traditional disciplines to bear upon a focal point of human relationships and problems that cross national and cultural boundaries. The program is designed to serve the student who seeks knowledge of the range of contemporary and possible future problems which confront international society and an understanding of alternative national and cultural perspectives on solutions to those problems. The program also serves the needs of students planning a career in the Foreign Service or related agencies of the federal government and students preparing for employment abroad in the private sector, or in international organizations, private or public. International Relations is offered as a major only. The program emphasis is on the course work in history, political science, economics, and geography, with contributions from other social science disciplines and art. Within the program, the student is required to concentrate a part of the work in the field of American foreign policy or in one of five areas of the world. Students are encouraged to pursue the study of a foreign language and to seek opportunities for travel and study abroad. The student's program should be planned in consultation with the Coordinator of International Relations. Course requirements are listed below. The Major: 33 semester hours, including ECON 4350; POLS 2501 and 4508; HIST 4260; INTL 4601; at least one course in International Political Processes (POLS 3505, 4501[W], or 4504); at least one course in International Economic Processes (ECON 3580 or 4340, GEOG 3430, or POLS 4510): at least one course in International Development Processes (ANTH 3721, ECON 3580, or SOCI 2100 or 4641); and three courses, in at least two disciplines, from one of the following areas of concentration: a. American Foreign Policy: HIST 3803, 3811; POLS 2301, 3506, 3508, 4506. b. Western Europe: GEOG 4304; HIST 3302, 3506, 4145, 4461; POLS 3302. c. Latin America: ANTH 3232; ART 4162; GEOG 4324, 4325; HIST 3212; POLS 3306. d. Asia: GEOG 4306; HIST 3291, 4292, 4294, 4295; PHIL 3721; POLS 4307; SOCI 4642. e. Soviet Union: GEOG 4305; HIST 4162; POLS 4305, 4502. f. Africa and the Middle East: ANTH 3242; HIST 3271, 4281, 4282, 4283; POLS 3304, 3309. NOTE: The student electing the major in International Relations is advised to take the following courses to insure that he has an adequate background for the required courses in the major: ECON 2110; HIST 1301, 1302; INTL 1101,1102. LEGAL THOUGHT AND LIBERAL ARTS INTERDISCIPLINARY MINOR The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]The minor, Legal Thought and Liberal Arts, is designed to provide an interdisciplinary liberal arts program for students who intend to enter the legal profession. The minor will be of particular benefit to pre-law students whose majors are more professional in nature and who are not exposed to the broader liberal arts curriculum. Students will be introduced to major intellectual traditions of the West and to ethical, social, and economic issues of significance to our time. The courses in the minor require that students read critically, think logically, and write clearly - attributes required of persons in the legal profession. Students wishing to minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts should contact the pre-law advisor in room 207 of Mitchell Hall. The Minor: 18 semester hours of required courses and electives: A. Required Core Course: PHIL 1611 and one of the following: 1. ENGL 3604, 4231, 4233, 4234. B. Electives: Select one course from each of the following groups: 1. Historical Context of the Law: HIST 3121, 3506, 3840. 2. Economic Context of the Law: ECON 2110, 2120, 4130. 3. Theoretical Foundations of Jurisprudence: PHIL 3511, 4551; POLS 3401, 3402, 3405. 4. Practical Foundations of Jurisprudence: CJUS 3510; POLS 4212, 4405. MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES The Major: 41-42 semester hours, including 36 semester hours in MATH courses, including MATH 1321, 2321, 2322, 2701, and 3242 [C] (majors are encouraged to consider the departmental honors program described below); plus the following courses applicable to degree requirements: CHEM 1121, 1122, 1131, and 1132 or PHYS 2510, 2520 and 2003, 2004; and completion of one of the following two concentrations: MATHEMATICS (21-22 hours): COMP 1900 or COMP 4001 and 18 semester hours of upper division courses (excluding MATH 4999) with departmental approval. The following are examples of approved course selections: a. Applied Mathematics: MATH 3391, 4391, 4635, 4721, and six upper division hours from the following: MATH 3221, 4242, 4261, 4271, 4350 [W], 4351, 4361, 4381, 4390, 4392, 4640, 4741. b. General Mathematics: MATH 3391, 4350 [W], 4261, 4635, and six upper division hours from the following: MATH 3221, 4242, 4271, 4351, 4361, 4381, 4391, 4411, 4636 [W], 4711, 4741. c. Graduate Study in Mathematics: MATH 4261, 4350 [W], three courses from the list: MATH 4242, 4351, 4361, 4411, and one additional course from the following: MATH 3221, 4242, 4271, 4351, 4361, 4381, 4390, 4391, 4411, 4635, 4711, 4741. d. Teacher Licensure in secondary education: MATH 3221, 3581, 4151, 4261, 4635, and either MATH 4636 [W] or 4637. NOTE: All approved programs must differ from the statistics concentration by at least nine semester hours. Students are encouraged to work with their advisors to plan their programs. STATISTICS (21 semester hours): COMP 4001, MATH 4635, 4636 [W], 4637, 4640, and six upper division hours from the following: MATH 3391, 4242, 4261, 4271, 4350 [W], 4351, 4361, 4381, 4390, 4391, 4721, 4741. The Minor: A minimum of 18 semester hours, including MATH 1321 (4), 2321 (4), 2322 (or MATH 1401, 1402, 2401)(4), plus six additional upper division semester hours in MATH courses. Honors Program: The Department of Mathematical Sciences offers an honors program in Mathematics and Statistics for the talented student. The student must satisfy the following course requirements with a minimum QPA of 3.50 in all MATH courses: The major with honors in Mathematical Sciences: 37 semester hours in MATH courses, including MATH 1401, 1402, 2401, 3402, 4402; plus the following courses applicable to the degree: CHEM 1121, 1122, 1131, 1132, or PHYS 2510, 2520, and 2003, 2004; and completion of one of the two areas of concentration described above. Those students who complete the program and the regular college requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degrees conferred With Honors in Mathematical Sciences. Moreover, the student's diploma and record at The University of Memphis will reflect this distinction. PHILOSOPHYThe Major: 30 semester hours in philosophy courses including PHIL 1101 or 1102, 1611, 3001, 3002, 3411 or 3511 [W] and 15 additional upper division semester hours. The Minor: 18 semester hours in philosophy courses, including PHIL 1101 or 1102, 1611, and 12 upper division semester hours. In consultation with the coordinator of undergraduate studies in philosophy, a student may design a minor (18 hours) that applies to the student's major area of study. Honors Program: The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]This program is open to philosophy majors with a 3.0 overall average and a 3.5 average in philosophy. The student will complete, with a grade of B or better a thesis submitted for credit in PHIL 4891. The thesis topic must be approved by the thesis director before the student registers for PHIL 4891. Those students who complete the program and the regular college requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred "With Honors in Philosophy." Moreover, the student's diploma and record at The University of Memphis will reflect this distinction. PHYSICSThe Major (60 hours): 37 hours in physics courses, 8 hours in chemistry courses, and 15 hours in mathematics courses as outlined below: PHYS 2003, 2004, 2510, 2520 (PHYS 2001, 2002, 2110, 2120 are acceptable but not recommended), PHYS 3010, 3011, 3111, 3211, 3610, 3611, 4510, 4211, 4410, and six additional upper division hours of electives. CHEM 1121, 1122, 1131, 1132. MATH 1321, 2321, 2322, 3391, or equivalent courses. The Minor: 20 semester hours in physics courses, including PHYS 2003, 2004, 2510, 2520 (PHYS 2001, 2002, 2110, 2120 are acceptable but not recommended), and twelve additional upper division hours. POLITICAL SCIENCE The Major: 33 semester hours in political science courses, including POLS 1100, 1101, 2301, 2501, and a minimum of 21 semester hours in upper division courses distributed across at least three of the following areas: American Government, Public Law, Political Theory, International Relations, Comparative Politics, and Research Methods. Only 9 semester hours of internship courses may be counted toward the 33 semester hour requirement. NOTE: Any major in Political Science may earn a second major in International Studies. Political Science courses in international relations and comparative government fulfill requirements for both the political science major and the major in international relations within the international studies program. The Minors: POLITICAL SCIENCE: 18 semester hours in political science courses, including POLS 1100; 1101 or 2301 or 2501; and 12 additional semester hours, 9 of which must be in upper division courses. Only 6 semester hours of internship courses may be counted toward the 18 semester hour requirement. PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION: 18 semester hours in political science courses including POLS 1100, 3601 [W], and 12 additional semester hours to be selected from the following: POLS 3211, 3213, 4221, 4224, 4231, 4604, and 4702. Only 6 semester hours of internship courses may be counted toward the 18 semester hour requirement. Honors Program: The department offers an honors program to qualified majors who choose to pursue a more sophisticated knowledge of the discipline, a more rigorous level of analysis, and a deeper understanding of politics. Students who have completed 55 hours of course work (with at least 9 hours in Political Science) and have a minimum over-all grade point average of 3.0 (with a minimum in Political Science of 3.25), or who can present equivalent qualifications, are invited to apply for admission to the program. The program requires 18 hours of honors course work, 12 or more of which must be upper-division Political Science courses, and minimum final grade point averages of 3.00 overall, 3.25 in Political Science, and 3.25 in honors coursework. Those students who complete the program and the regular college requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degrees conferred "With Honors in Political Science." Moreover, the student's diploma and the record at The University of Memphis will reflect this distinction. Details of the program are available in the Political Science Office. The department also collaborates with the University Honors Program, where majors may earn Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors with an Emphasis in Political Science. Students may pursue this program instead of departmental honors or in addition to departmental honors. For more information on Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors, see the description under the University Honors Program in the Independent Programs section of this catalog. PSYCHOLOGYThe Major: 35 semester hours in psychology courses, including PSYC 1101, 1102, 3001 (4) [C], 3002 (4) [W], 4101 [I]; at least one course each from the 3100, 3300, and 3500 series; and 9 additional hours at the 3000 level or above. The Minor: 20 semester hours in psychology, including PSYC 1101, 1102, 3001 (or equivalent), 3002, and 6 additional hours at or above the 3000 level. SOCIOLOGY AND SOCIAL WORK The College of Arts and 12:03:17 PM]SOCIOLOGYThe Major: 30 semester hours in sociology, including SOCI 1111, 3311 [C], 3322, 4210 or 4211. The Minor: SOCIOLOGY: 18 semester hours in sociology, including SOCI 1111. SOCIAL WORK The Major: 34 semester hours including SWRK 2911, 3901, 3902, 3903, 3904, 3905, 3930, 4830, 4831, 4840 [I], 4841 [I], 4932, and one upper division course in social research. BIOL 1051/1052 and SOCI 3311 [C] are required. The Minor: 18 semester hours in sociology and social work courses, including SWRK 2911, 3901, 3902, and 9 additional upper division semester hours in social work courses. NOTE: The B.A. degree in Social Work program is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education and is designed to prepare students for beginning professional practice. This curriculum also provides a strong foundation for students wishing to pursue study at the graduate level. Social service experience may not be substituted for any social work course. All social work majors are required to have a social work faculty advisor. The Social Work degree is granted only to students who have successfully completed the program in its entirety. The Fogelman College of Business and 12:03:19 PM]THE FOGELMAN COLLEGE OF BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS Donna M. Randall, Ph.D., Dean Room 432, Fogelman Business and Economics Building School of Accountancy KENNETH R. AUSTIN, Ph.D., C.P.A., Director Room 200A, Fogelman Business and Economics Building PURPOSEThe function of The Fogelman College of Business and Economics is to provide the basic education necessary to prepare a person to enter the profession of business. A significant characteristic of the college is that it provides for concentration in the basic areas of economics and business, not as a substitute for, but as a part of, a broad liberal education. From forty to sixty percent of the course work taken for the Bachelor of Business Administration degree (a required minimum of 40 percent) is taken in such areas as the humanities, the natural and physical sciences, and the social sciences. The undergraduate and graduate programs of the college are fully accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business. Honors Program ADMISSION Lower Division: Incoming freshmen who score at least 26 on the ACT or its equivalent on other tests are invited to participate and are eligible to enroll in the designated honors sections of this college's lower division courses. Transfer or students presently enrolled in The University of Memphis are eligible to enroll in the designated honors sections of this college's lower division courses if they have a minimum 3.00 quality point average or the recommendation of a faculty member. Upper Division: To be eligible to enroll in the designated honors sections of this college's upper division courses, students must have a minimum 3.25 quality point average in course work taken in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics and a 3.00 overall quality point average. RETENTIONThe participating honors student must maintain a minimum 3.00 quality point average in lower division and upper division honors courses, have a minimum 3.25 quality point average in all courses taken in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, and a minimum overall quality point average of 3.00 to continue in the college's Honors Program. REQUIREMENTSTo qualify for "Honors in Business," in addition to an Honors Thesis, a student must complete successfully a minimum of 18 semester hours from the following: 1. No more than 6 hours from Honors Sections in: ACCT 2010, 2020; ECON 3310, 3320; ISDS 2710, 2711, 2750; or ECON 2110, 2120; MATH 1401, 1402. 2. At least 12 hours from Honors Sections in: ECON 4111; FIR 3011, 3130, 3410; MGMT 3110, MGMT 4710; MKTG 3010; MGMT 3510. The Fogelman College of Business and 12:03:19 PM]In some circumstances, additional contract work and enrollment in a non-honors section of a required upper division course may be accepted as upper division honors credit. A maximum of 6 hours of upper division honors credit may be contracted. 3. Honors course work in at least 3 disciplines (e.g., Accounting; Economics; Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate; Management; Management Information Systems and Decision Sciences; or Marketing). No more than nine (9) hours in any one discipline may count toward the 18 hours of honors course work. A minimum grade of B is required in each honors course for it to count toward fulfilling the honors course requirement, but regular credit for the course will be earned if the grade is lower than a B. THESISDuring their senior year, prospective honors graduates must complete successfully an honors thesis, which, in addition to the 18 hours of honors course work, will qualify them to graduate "With Honors in Business." Students will select a major advisor and submit a thesis proposal. This proposal must be approved by the advisor and the Director of the College Honors Program. Upon completing the thesis, the student must submit it for approval to the advisor and the College Director. CERTIFICATE OF ACHIEVEMENT Students who complete a minimum of 12 hours in Honors course work with a minimum of 3.25 quality point average and a minimum of B in each of the Honors courses will receive a Certificate of Achievement. DESIGNATION OF "WITH HONORS IN BUSINESS" Students who complete 18 hours (meeting the restrictions listed) with an acceptable Honors Thesis and a minimum 3.25 quality point average in all courses taken in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics, and in all Honors courses taken in this college, with a minimum overall quality point average of 3.00 will have earned the designation of "With Honors in Business" which will appear on the transcript and diploma.ORGANIZATION OF THE COLLEGE The Fogelman College of Business and Economics comprises The School of Accountancy and five academic departments: Economics; Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate; Management; Management Information Systems and Decision Sciences; and Marketing. These academic units offer a variety of majors and minors, the detailed requirements for which are listed later in this section. The interdisciplinary International Business Program centered in this college offers an undergraduate major in International Business; requirements are listed in the section pertaining to departmental requirements. In addition there are two research units: Bureau of Business and Economic Research and Center for Manpower Studies. Academic Advising Every student entering The Fogelman College of Business and Economics will receive advice in the college's Advising Office. The advisor will assist the student in the selection of appropriate courses and provide the opportunity for meaningful discussion regarding career goals, past academic experience and future academic growth and progress as it relates to the student's development. This assistance, however, does not in any way relieve the student of the primary responsibility of studying the Catalog and fulfilling all the requirements for the degree. Intent to Graduate Intent to graduate forms are filed with the Graduation Analyst in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Students must schedule an appointment before the established application deadline published in each current Catalog or Schedule of Classes. Deadlines are strictly enforced. At this time, an audit of the prospective graduate's academic record is conducted, and the applicant will be provided with an official The Fogelman College of Business and 12:03:19 PM]graduation agreement indicating the remaining degree requirements. RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS Residence requirements for a degree in business administration are as follows: (1) the senior year must be completed at The University of Memphis, (2) at least 33 hours of upper division business courses must be taken at The University of Memphis, and (3) 12 of the 33 upper division business administration hours must be in the major field. A student transferring credits from a two-year (lower division) college must complete a minimum of 60 semester hours in an accredited senior institution. Students with transfer credit are required to maintain a 2.0 QPA on all courses taken at The University of Memphis.MINOR. To earn a minor in this college, a transfer student majoring in one of the other colleges of the university or in this college must earn at The University of Memphis at least 6 upper division business administration hours of the total number of hours required for that minor. See University Residence Requirements in the Graduation from the University section. TRANSFER CREDIT The official evaluation and acceptance of transfer credit is the responsibility of the Office of Admissions. The Undergraduate Advising Office of The Fogelman College of Business and Economics, however, will be happy to answer inquiries regarding the applicability of transfer course work for the completion of the B.B.A. degree.If a student transfers credit in required business courses that are classified as upper division in this college, but were taken as lower division credit or taken at a two-year (lower division) institution, these courses must be repeated or validated by examination. Validated courses are not considered U of M credit and will not count toward hours of residency. Each transfer student must: (1) have completed all required lower division business administration courses with a minimum grade of C in each; (2) have a minimum quality point average of 2.25 in all required lower division business administration core courses and in MATH 1312; (3) have accumulated 55 hours of course work including the required 9 semester hours of English, MATH 1312 and the lower division business administration core. ACADEMIC PROGRAMS School/DepartmentMajorClick below for Major Requirements. Click on Tiger Paw for Course Descriptions.ConcentrationWithin Major Degree Offered Click below for Degree RequirementsSchool of Accountancy AccountingNONEBachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.)Department of Economics Business Economics NONEBachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.)FinanceNONEBachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.) The Fogelman College of Business and 12:03:19 PM]Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate Financial Services (1) Insurance (2) Investments (3) Real Estate Bachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.)Risk Management and InsuranceNONEBachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.)Real Estate NONEBachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.)Department of Management Management(1) General Management (2) Human Resources Management (3) Office ManagementBachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.)Management Information Information Systems & Decision SciencesManagement Information SystemsNONEBachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.)Production Operations ManagementNONEBachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.)Department of Marketing Marketing Management NONEBachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.)SalesNONEBachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.)Logistics/MarketingNONEBachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.)Interdisciplinary Program International Business SeeAdvisorNONEBachelor of Business Administration(B.B.A.)B.B.A. DEGREE REQUIREMENTS 1. To qualify for the Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.) degree, the student must complete a minimum of 132 semester hours (128 hours for Accountancy majors) with a minimum overall quality point average of 2.00 and meet additional quality point average requirements described below. 2. A minimum quality point average of 2.25 is necessary for all required lower division and upper division business administration core courses and in the required mathematics course. The required lower division courses are: ACCT 2010, 2020; ECON 2110, 2120; MGMT 1010 (if taken); ISDS 2710, 2711, 2750 (ACCT 2410 for School of Accountancy students); and MATH 1312. 3. A minimum of 40% (53 hours) of the 132 hours required for the degree must be from outside the college (except for ECON 2110 and 2120), and 40% (53 hours) of the 132 semester hours required must be from within the college. 4. B.B.A. students may apply no more than two semester hours of physical activity courses to the minimum degree requirements of 132 semester hours. The Fogelman College of Business and 12:03:19 PM]5. All courses used to satisfy specific degree requirements of this college must be taken on a "letter grade" OR "credit by examination" basis. Hours earned on a "credit/no credit" basis are accepted only in courses designated as electives in the student's degree program. Courses taken on an "audit" basis cannot be used to satisfy college requirements. 6. The computer literacy requirement will be met by successfully passing ISDS 2750 (Introduction to Management Information Systems with Computer Applications) and other required Business Administration core courses. Students in The School of Accountancy will meet the computer literacy requirement by passing ACCT 2410. 7. In the B.B.A. degree, the following courses are used to meet General Education computation and writing intensive and integrative requirements. Credit by exam is not available for these courses: Computation Intensive: ECON 4111. Writing Intensive: MGMT 3510. Integrative: MGMT 4710. General Requirements The college curriculum is organized into a lower division and an upper division: THE LOWER DIVISION (LD) comprises the freshman and sophomore years, the first four semesters of university work. Courses offered in the lower division are numbered from 1000 through 2999, and the student must register consistently for all lower division requirements until they are completed. THE UPPER DIVISION (UD) comprises the junior and senior years of undergraduate work; courses offered in the upper division are numbered 3000 through 4999. Any student seeking a degree in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics must: (1) have completed all required lower division business administration courses with a minimum grade of C in each; (2) have a minimum quality point average of 2.25 (Accounting majors 2.5) in all required lower division business administration core courses and in MATH 1312; (3) have accumulated 55 hours of course work including the required 9 semester hours of English, MATH 1312 and the lower division business administration core. Enrollment Priority Neither admission by The University of Memphis and The Fogelman College of Business and Economics nor completion of the minimum requirements guarantees admission to any specific course offered by the college. Limited resources may require that enrollment in business classes be based on ranking by Quality Point Average with exceptions being made for graduating seniors. I. NON-BUSINESS CURRICULUM (GENERAL EDUCATION) (53 hours minimum) English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101, 1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): COMM 2381. Mathematics: (3-6 hours) including MATH 1312 with a minimum grade of C. NOTE: Students who have not had the prerequisite for MATH 1312 take MATH 1211 as a non-business elective. Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202. Fine Arts Heritage: (3 hours): ART 1101, COMM 1851, DANC 1151, MUHL 1101, or THEA 1551. The Fogelman College of Business and 12:03:19 PM]Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302, PHIL 1102, POLS 1102, UNIV 2860, 3581. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one other course from the following: ANTH 3282, GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881, POLS 4212, POLS 4405; SOCI 3422. Social Science (6 hours): ECON 2110, 2120, with a minimum grade of C in each course. Natural Science (8 hours-Sequence required): BIOL 1051, 1052, 1061, 1062; BIOL 1151, 1152, 1161, 1162; CHEM 1101, 1102; CHEM 1131, 1121, 1132, 1122; GEOG 1001, 1011, 1002, 1022; GEOL 1101,1103; PHYS 1001, 1010, 1002, 1020; PHYS 2003, 2510, 2004, 2520; or UNIV 1610, 1611. Fitness and Wellness (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002, THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). NOTE: Only 2 semester hours of physical activity may be counted toward the minimum 132 hours required for the B.B.A. Non-Business Electives (lower division or upper division to bring the total of non- business hours earned to 53). II. BUSINESS CORE CURRICULUM Lower Division (18 hours) No grade below C and a minimum quality point average of 2.25 (Accounting majors 2.5) are necessary for all required lower division business core courses and in MATH 1312. The lower division business courses include:MGMT 1010 Introduction to Business (3) FRESHMAN ONLY. NOTE: If taken by student with 25 or more hours, credit will not count for B.B.A. degree. ISDS 2710 Business Statistics I (3) ISDS 2711 Business Statistics II (3) ISDS 2750 Management Information Systems with Computer Applications (3) (ACCT 2410 for accounting majors) ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting I (3) ACCT 2020 Fundamentals of Accounting II (3) ECON 2110 Intro to Macroeconomics (*) ECON 2120 Intro to Microeconomics (*) * Hours included in General Education total. III. BUSINESS CORE CURRICULUM Upper Division (30 hours) No grade below C and 2.25 QPA in the following courses: ECON 4111 Managerial Economics (3) [C] FIR 3011 Business Law (3) FIR 3130 Legal, Social, and Political Environment of Business (3) FIR 3410 Business Finance (3) MGMT 3110 Organization and Management (3) MGMT 4710 Business Policy (3) [I] (Enrollment usually limited to graduating seniors) MKTG 3010 Principles of Marketing (3) MGMT 3510 Business Communications (3) [W]ISDS 3510 Production and Operations Management (3) ACCT 3723 (Accounting majors only) Choose One: MGMT 4810, International Management (3); MKTG 4530, International Marketing (3); ECON 4350, International Economics (3); FIR 4550, International Finance (3); MGMT 4510, International Business Communication and Negotiation (3); MKTG 4570 Import/Export Marketing (3); ECON 4351. International Monetary Economics: Theory and Policy (3) (Transfer students are referred to the section Transfer Credit) IV. THE MAJOR The Fogelman College of Business and 12:03:19 PM]Each student, with the assistance of an advisor in the college, not later than the beginning of the junior year, will select a major and, if available, an area of concentration within the major. The specific courses required by each department for the satisfaction of its major are listed in the section following. V. GENERAL ELECTIVES Student will take lower division or upper division business or non-business courses sufficient to bring the total to 132 semester hours for the degree (128 hours for Accountancy majors). VI. COURSES NOT APPLICABLE TOWARD B.B.A. DEGREE Remedial and Developmental Studies (R&DS) courses may not be used to fulfill the minimum number of hours required for the B.B.A. degree. VII. THE MINOR A student whose major is within The Fogelman College of Business and Economics is not required to have a minor; however, such an option is available. A minimum grade of C must be earned for each required course in the lower division and upper division business administration core curriculum and in each course required for the minor. A student whose major is within one of the other colleges of the university may take a minor in one of the departmental areas. (See Residence Requirements for The Fogelman College of Business and Economics.) SCHOOL OF ACCOUNTANCY The objectives of the School of Accountancy are: (1) to provide a comprehensive, state-of-the-art educational background, balanced as to conceptual vs. pragmatic knowledge, that will prepare students to commence and continue the development of their careers as professional accountants, financially-oriented managers/advisors, and professors of accounting; (2) to promote both applied and theoretical research of high quality and of significance to both the accounting profession and the academic accounting discipline; and (3) to provide leadership and support in its areas of expertise to other academic units, the profession, the business community, and the general public. REQUIREMENTS FOR MAJOR AND MINOR ACCOUNTANCYAdmission Standards: To be eligible for admission to The School of Accountancy an applicant must: (1) have completed all required lower division business administration courses with a minimum grade of C in each; (2) have a minimum quality point average of 2.5 in all required lower division business administration core courses and in MATH 1312; (3) have accumulated 55 hours of course work including the required 9 semester hours in English, MATH 1312 and the lower division business administration core; and (4) make application for admission to upper division business administration coursework and admission to the Accountancy Program. In exceptional circumstances the school director may admit students who do not meet the QPA requirement on the basis of superior ACT scores, performance in introductory accounting courses, and other such special criteria. Prospective accountancy students who meet these requirements should apply to The School of Accountancy at the beginning of the semester in which they plan to enroll in ACCT 2410. Degree: The B.B.A. degree with a major in accountancy requires a minimum of 128 semester hours. The Major: ACCT 2410 and 19 upper division semester hours in accounting courses as follow: ACCT 3110 and 3120, 3310, 3510, 4020, 4240, 4721. The Minor: For students whose major is in another college of the university: ACCT 2010, 2020, 3010, 3110; plus one of the following: 3120, 3310, 3510. For students whose major is in a department in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics: ACCT 2410, 3110, 3120, 3310, 3510. FRESHMAN YEAR ENGL 1101 3 ENGL 1102 3 Natural Science * 4 Natural Science * 4Fine Arts * 3 MATH 1312 3 Elective (Non-Bus.) *** 3 American Heritage * 3Hist/Phil Heritage * 3 Hist/Phil Heritage * 3HPER 1100 2 Physical Activity 2 18 18 The Fogelman College of Business and 12:03:19 PM]SOPHOMORE YEAR ACCT 2010 3 ACCT 2020 3 ENGL 2201 OR 2202 3 American Heritage * 3COMM 2381 3 ECON 2120 3 ECON 2110 3 ACCT 2410 3 ISDS 2710 3 ISDS 2711 3 15 15 JUNIOR YEAR ACCT 3110 3 ACCT 3120 3 ACCT 3310 3 ACCT 3723 3 FIR 3011 3 FIR 3130 3 ISDS 3510 3 FIR 3410 3 MKTG 3010 3 MGMT 3110 3 15 15 SENIOR YEAR 4XXX (Bus. Course) 3 ACCT 4240 3 ACCT 4020 3 Elective 3 ECON 4111 [C] 3 MGMT 4710 [I] 3 MGMT 3510 [W] 3 ACCT 4721 1 ACCT 3510 3 International Business** 3Elective 1 Elective 3 16 16 * See Fogelman College of Business and Economics Non-Business curriculum (General Education) requirements for acceptable courses.** Students must select one of the following: ECON 4350, 4351; FIR 4550; MGMT 4510, 4810; MKTG 4530. *** If student does not have the prerequisite required for MATH 1312, the student should take MATH 1211 as this elective. DEPARTMENTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MAJORS AND MINORS Department of Economics The Department of Economics has two major objectives: to prepare students majoring in economics by providing a solid foundation in the principal areas of economics and to function as a service department for other departments in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics, as well as the other colleges of the university. In general, the department attempts to give economics majors a solid background in economic theory, quantitative economics and applied economics. ECONOMICSThe Major (B.B.A.): A minimum of 21 upper division semester hours in courses as follows: ECON 3310, 3320, 4920 and four additional upper division courses selected with the approval of the department advisor. The Major (B.A., College of Arts and Sciences): The student is required to meet the requirements for the Bachelor of Arts degree plus these specific major requirements: ECON 2110, 2120, 3310, 3320, 4920, and five additional upper division courses, for a total of 30 semester hours, selected with the approval of the department advisor. The Minor: For students whose major is in another college of the university: 18 semester hours in economics courses, including ECON 2110, 2120, and 12 additional upper division hours in courses as approved by the department advisor. For students whose major is in another department in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics: Nineadditional upper division hours in economics approved by the department advisor. Honors Program: All students who receive a grade of B or better in ECON 2110 or 2120 honors sections are eligible for the program. Entry to the program can also be obtained through the recommendation of a member of the faculty to the Economics Departmental Honors Committee. A student must maintain an average grade of at least 3.25 in economics to continue in the program and must have an average grade of 3.5 or better in economics to graduate with honors in economics. Honor students take special courses during the junior and senior years, particularly the honors sections of ECON 3310 and 3320, and write a senior research paper. At commencement they are awarded the special distinction "with honors in Economics." Details of the program are available at the Economics Department office. The Fogelman College of Business and 12:03:19 PM]Department of Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate The primary objective of the department is to provide the basic concepts, principles and analytical tools essential for business decisions in the fields of finance, insurance and real estate. The department curriculum is designed to provide a broad background for effective functioning within each discipline or in related business and governmental fields. More specifically: 1. Finance majors study the environment, theory and techniques of decisions on the acquisition and allocation of funds by business firms, including the applied areas of investment and financial institutions. 2. Risk management and insurance majors study risk theory, risk management; life, health, and property-liability insurance and their relationships to other disciplines in business administration. 3. Real Estate majors will be provided the basic theories and practices of urban land use and economics. Exposure will be to real estate principles, valuation, investment analysis and finance, legal environment, and development. FINANCEThe Major: A minimum of 21 upper division semester hours in courses as follows: FIR 3710, 3720 ,4440, 4610, and nine additional upper division hours in courses selected with the approval of the advisor. The Minor: For students whose major is in another area in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics: Nine upper division hours in finance approved by the department chair. For students whose major is within another college of the university: ACCT 2010 and 2020; ECON 2110, 2120, 3610; FIR 3410, 3710. Three additional upper division hours approved by the department chair. FINANCIAL SERVICES NOTE: Degree requirements catalog: Fall 1988 or any subsequent valid catalog for students with accredited college credit prior to Fall 1989. The Major: A minimum of 24 upper division semester hours in courses as follows: Core: (15)FIR 3310, 3710, 3810, 4011, 4912, plus completion of one of the following concentrations: INSURANCE: FIR 4820, 4860, ACCT 3510 (9) INVESTMENTS: FIR 3720, 4770, ACT 3510 (9) REAL ESTATE: FIR 4320, 4350, ACCT 3510 (9) RISK MANAGEMENT AND INSURANCE The Major: A minimum of 21 upper division semester hours in courses, as follows: FIR 3810, 4810, 4820, 4870, and a minimum of nine additional upper division hours in courses selected with the approval of the advisor.The Minor: For students whose major is in another area in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics: FIR 3810, 4870 and three additional upper division hours in insurance approved by the department chair. For students whose major is within another college of the university: ACCT 2010, ECON 2110, ISDS 2710, FIR 3011, 3810, 4870, and three additional upper division hours in insurance or finance approved by the department chair. REAL ESTATE The Major: A minimum of 21 upper division semester hours in courses, as follows: FIR 3310, 4310, 4320, 4340, 4350, and a minimum of 6 additional upper division hours in courses selected with the approval of the The Fogelman College of Business and 12:03:19 PM]advisor.The Minor: For students whose major is in another area in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics: FIR 3310 and six additional upper division hours in real estate approved by the department chair. For students whose major is within another college of the university: ACCT 2010; ECON 2110; FIR 3011, 3130, 3310, and six additional upper division hours in real estate approved by the department chair. Department of Management The effective manager of today must have competence in many disciplines, an understanding of a wide variety of relationships, and the ability to analyze evolving management requirements. Regardless of the functional specialty, the professional manager must also be a leader of people who knows how to organize and motivate groups of people serving the goals of the organization. Effective adaptation of management to such emergent conditions as the continued growth of science and technology, populations, and large scale organization demands a thorough grasp of management process theory including planning, organizing, directing, and controlling of operations. The management major is designed to provide students with a basic understanding of management concepts, theories and principles which will be useful in all kinds of organizations. All management majors take courses in management principles, business communication, human resources administration, organizational behavior, international management, and strategic management. These courses and others are designed to develop knowledge of organizations and administrative processes and enhance skills in interpersonal relations, written and oral communication, and work project development and completion. The program in management is intended to promote the development of general knowledge and skills which can be applied in virtually any organizational setting and which will continue to be important in the future. In addition to required core courses in management, students select among several more specialized courses to complete their majors. MANAGEMENTThe Major: a minimum of 21 upper division semester hours, including MGMT 3215, 4420, and courses as listed in one of the concentration areas below. (Where MGMT 4810 is used to fulfill a requirement in the major, students must select one course from MGMT 4510, MKTG 4530, ECON 4350, or FIR 4550 to satisfy the international component of the Business Core Curriculum.) GENERAL MANAGEMENT: MGMT 4810, ACCT 3010, ISDS 4790. The remaining 6 hours of the 21 hour minimum for the major may be selected from 4000-level courses in Management and one of the following courses: ECON 3610, FIR 4440, MKTG 3610. HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT: MGMT 4210, 4220, 4230, 4240. The remaining 3 hours of the 21 hour minimum for the major may be selected from the following: MGMT 4810; TECH 3386; ECON 3210; PSYC 3508; FIR 4860. OFFICE MANAGEMENT: MGMT 4330, 4410, 4460. The remaining 6 hours of the 21 hour minimum for the major may be selected from the following: MGMT 4320; ISDS 4430; ACCT 3010. The Minor For students whose major is in another area in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics: MGMT 3215, 4420, and 6 upper division semester hours in management. For students whose major is within another college of the university: MGMT 3110, 3215, 4420; ISDS 3510; and 6 upper division semester hours in Management. Department of Management Information Systems and Decision Sciences Managers and nonmanagers alike depend upon information for decision making. To be useful that information must be understandable, timely, thorough, focused on the decision at hand, and in the hands of the appropriate individual. Accomplishing all this is the challenge of Management Information Systems and the Decision Sciences. It requires a knowledge of individual and/or group behavior, the process of perception (how people select and interpret information), the decision tools they need, computers and communication technology, systems design, managing data, and the impact individual decisions have on the organization. Management Information Systems and the Decision Sciences include several specialized areas including Artificial Intelligence, Expert Systems, Telecommunications, Cognitive Processing, Production/Operations Management, Management Science, Decision Support Systems, Management Information Systems Planning, Decision Theory, Statistics, Data Base Management, Office Automation, and general applications of computers and microcomputers to business. The Fogelman College of Business and 12:03:19 PM]Many Management Information Systems and Decision Science courses require substantial hands-on experience in computer labs. Therefore, the department does not allow credit by examination for upper division courses. MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS The Major: ISDS 2770, 3750, 3760, 3770, 3775, 4785, and two of the following: ISDS 3790, 4765, 4780, 4795. The Minor: For students whose major is in another area in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics: ISDS 2770, 3770, 3775, 4795. For students whose major is within another college of the university: ISDS 2750, 2770, 3770, 3775, 4795, and either 4780 or 4785. PRODUCTION OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT The Major: ISDS 4510, 4511, 4512; MKTG 3610 and three of the following: TECH 4462, 4464, 4466; ISDS 3760; MKTG 3620, 4220; MGMT 4420. Department of Marketing The objective of the Department of Marketing is to provide a broad view of the marketing process and to develop an understanding of all the factors involved in the marketing of goods and services. Students may select from three majors: (1) Marketing Management majors study the practical application of marketing concepts, including procedures for developing promotion, pricing, distribution, and sales management strategies. Additionally, instruction is provided in market research, buyer behavior issues, and a variety of market programming topics. (2) Sales majors are taught practical and theoretical sales and sales management skills. Particular emphasis is placed on interpersonal communication techniques and on the practical application of the marketing concepts as they apply to sales and sales management.(3) Logistics/Marketing majors study the details of logistics management as well as an analysis of the political and competitive environment in which logistics practitioners must function. Additionally, numerous distribution functions such as warehousing, inventory management, order processing, and distribution planning are covered. MARKETING MANAGEMENT The Major: a minimum of 21 upper division semester hours in marketing courses as follows: MKTG 3012, 3140, 3610, 4080, 4901, and six semester hours chosen by the student from the following: MKTG 3170, 3320, 3620, 4220, 4230, 4240, 4410, 4470, 4530, 4570, 4790, 4920-29. The Minor: For students whose major is in another college of the university: ACCT 2010; ECON 2120; and MKTG 3010, 3012, 3140, 3610, and six semester hours chosen by the student from the following: MKTG 3170, 3320, 3410, 3620, 4220, 4230, 4240, 4410, 4470, 4530, 4570, 4790, 4920-29. For students whose major is in another area in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics: MKTG 3012, 3140, 3610, and three semester hours chosen by the student from the following: MKTG 3170, 3320, 3620, 4220, 4230, 4240, 4410, 4470, 4530, 4570, 4790, 4920-29. SALESThe Major: a minimum of 21 upper division semester hours in marketing courses as follows: MKTG 3410, 4080, 4410, 4490, 4901, and six semester hours chosen by the student from the following: MKTG 3012, 3140, 3320, 3610, 4220, 4240, 4470, 4790. The Minor: For students whose major is in another college of the university: ACCT 2010; ECON 2120; MKTG 3010, 3410, 4410, 4490, and six semester hours chosen by the student from the following courses: MKTG 3012, 3140, 3320, 3610, 4220, 4240, 4470, 4790. For students whose major is in another area in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics: MKTG 3410, 4410, The Fogelman College of Business and 12:03:19 PM]4470, and 4490. LOGISTICS/MARKETINGThe Major: a minimum of 21 upper division semester hours in marketing courses as follows: MKTG 3610, 3620, 3630, 4080, 4901, and six semester hours chosen by the student from the following courses: MKTG 3012, 3320, 4220, 4470, 4570, 4620, 4790. The Minor: For students whose major is in another college of the university: ACCT 2010, ECON 2120, MKTG 3010, 3610, 3620, 3630, and six semester hours chosen by the student from the following: MKTG 3012, 3320, 4220, 4470, 4570, 4620, 4790. For students whose major is in another area in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics: MKTG 3610, 3620, 3630, and three semester hours chosen by the student from the following: MKTG 3012, 3320, 4220, 4470, 4570, 4620, 4790. Program in International Business The primary objective of the International Business Program is to provide a broad interdisciplinary background for a career in international business. Through the study of theoretical and practical aspects of the operations of international and multinational business and through work in several liberal arts disciplines, the graduate of this program should be prepared, after receiving a minimum orientation training in a particular international firm, to apply the knowledge acquired to the solution of problems faced by the company. For further information concerning this program, contact the Advising Office, The Fogelman College of Business and Economics. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS The Major: The student majoring in International Business must complete the same courses required of all students working toward the B.B.A. degree. For additional requirements during the sophomore and junior years, see the International Business advisor. Students majoring in International Business are required to take six credit hours in foreign language. It is also strongly suggested that the students take more than six hours. In the senior year, the student will take 21 semester hours in courses offered by The Fogelman College of Business and Economics, distributed as follows: 15 semester hours (5 courses) from the following group: ECON 4340, 4350, 4351; FIR 4550; MGMT 4810; MKTG 4530. 6 semester hours (2 courses) from the following group: ECON 4120; FIR 4440; ISDS 3760, MKTG 4080. Two courses from the College of Arts and Sciences are also required in the senior year. See the advisor. The Minor: For students whose major is in another area in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics: Nine hours from the following courses with the approval of the International Business advisor: ECON 4340, 4350, 4351; FIR 4550; MGMT 4810; MKTG 4530.For students whose major is in another college of the university: The student will take a minimum of 18 hours in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics, at least 9 hours of which must be chosen from the following: ECON 4340, 4350; FIR 4550; MGMT 4810; MKTG 4530. The necessary prerequisites for the above courses are in parentheses below: ECON 4340 (ECON 2110); ECON 4350 (ECON 2120); FIR 4550 (FIR 3410 or consent of instructor); MGMT 4810 (MGMT 3110); MKTG 4530 (MKTG 3010). Pre-Professional Business Administration Minor The Fogelman College of Business and Economics offers a pre-professional minor (30 hours) for students whose major is in another college of the university. Requirements are as follows: ACCT 2010, 2020; ECON 2110, 2120; ISDS 2710, 2750; FIR 3130, 3410; MGMT 3110; MKTG 3010. Accounting, economics, and junior standing are prerequisites for 3000 level courses. The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]THE COLLEGE OF COMMUNICATION AND FINE ARTSRICHARD R. RANTA, B.S., M.A., Ph.D., Dean Room 232, Communication Fine Arts Building PHILOSOPHYThe College of Communication and Fine Arts is focused ultimately upon visual and audible symbols, whose rational and emotional values it is the mission of the college to create and explore. In the belief that perception is largely shaped by experience, The College of Communication and Fine Arts offers a range of symbolically rendered experiences, both individual and collective, in the hope of broadening and sensitizing the perceptions of its students. The kind of symbolic experience that communicates emerges when, in Ruskin's phrase, "the hand, the head and the heart of man go together." Students in The College of Communication and Fine Arts receive individual and small group instruction toward this end. In the hope of furthering the capacity to impose a pattern on experience and to recognize the patterns offered by others, students of the college are exposed additionally to courses drawn from a broad base of the liberal arts. The faculty of the college represents a diversity of academic and artistic backgrounds and interests, reflected not only in its teaching, but also in research and creative activities. It is a faculty united in the attempt to maintain the highest standards in both classroom and studio work, standards that find their limits at last only in the mystery and wonder of the human experience from which they rise. PURPOSESThe College of Communication and Fine Arts has four primary functions. First, it offers courses of study aimed at preparing its students to work toward careers in the fine or applied arts, communications, or the performing arts, whether as practitioners, teachers, artists, or consultants. Second, the college affords broad exposure and instruction in fine arts and communication to students of other colleges in the university whose degree programs may be enhanced by such exposure. Third, with a view toward individual professional growth as well as general cultural enhancement, the college vigorously promotes both scholarly research and artistic production on the part of its faculty. Finally, the college seeks to enrich the cultural atmosphere of both the university and the community at large through a continuing variety of public programs, to include art exhibitions, media presentations, dramatic productions, concerts, recitals, lectures, seminars, debates, workshops, festivals, and the like. Through the diversity of these constituent elements, the college reflects the unity and challenge facing the communicative artist and scholar. Ultimately it is our goal to foster a more intense and profound awareness of the broad range of human experience from which the college derives its pertinence and vitality. ORGANIZATIONThe College of Communication and Fine Arts comprises five academic departments: Art, Communication, Journalism, Music, and Theatre and Dance. The requirements for the majors and minors offered by these departments are listed later in this section. The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS University residence requirements are explained in detail in the Graduation from the University section. A transfer student in The College of Communication and Fine Arts must earn at least 6 semester hours in residence in the major subject and at least 3 semester hours in the minor. These credits may be earned only through regular class enrollment for a letter grade. TEACHER PREPARATION Students enrolled in a degree program of The College of Communication and Fine Arts who wish to prepare themselves for teaching careers in the secondary schools of Tennessee may meet the state licensure requirements while pursuing their chosen majors. Detailed licensure requirements are outlined under Requirements for Teacher Licensure in the Graduation from the University section. An application to enter the Teacher Education Program must be filed with the College of Education General Advisor. Students entering the university as first time freshmen who wish to prepare for teaching careers in the fields of music or art, will be required to complete a five-year program. This program will result in the student first receiving a baccalaureate degree in the College of Communication and Fine Arts and then a Master of Arts in Teaching degree through the College of Education. Recommendation for licensure is contingent upon completion of the Master of Arts in Teaching degree program. This program replaces previous Bulletin options for majors in music or art education. Students should consult with their major advisors in the Departments of Music or Art for information about this program and to insure that all requirements for the teaching endorsement, general education and professional studies are completed. ACADEMIC PROGRAMS DepartmentMajorClick below for Major Requirements. Click on Tiger Paw for course Descriptions. Concentration Within Major Degree Offered Click below for Degree RequirementsArtArt(1) Art Education (2)Ceramics, Painting, Sculpture, Printmaking (3)Graphic Design (4)Interior Design (5)PhotographyBachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.) Art History NONEBachelor of Arts (B.A.)CommunicationCommunication(1) Broadcast and Electronic Media (2) Communication (3) Film and Video ProductionBachelor of Arts (B.A.)JournalismJournalism(1) Advertising (2) Broadcast News (3) News Editorial (4) Public Relations Bachelor of Arts (B.A.)Music(1) Performance (2) Sacred Music (3) Composition (4) Music History (5) School Music Bachelor of Music (B.M.) The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]Music(Instrumental)(Choral)Commercial Music (1) Music Business (2) Recording Technology (3) Jazz and Studio Performance (4) Jazz and Studio Composition/ArrangingBachelor of Music (B.M.)Theatre and DanceTheatre(1) Performance (2) Design and Technical Production (3) DanceBachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.) DEGREE REQUIREMENTS Degrees Offered A student may earn a Bachelor of Fine Arts, Bachelor of Music, or Bachelor of Arts degree, by majoring in one of the five departments that constitute The College of Communication and Fine Arts. The following is an outline by department of all majors and concentration areas offered by the departments in the College of Communication and Fine Arts. A minimum grade of C is required in every course applicable toward a major or minor. Every student should be aware that the mere completion of courses outlined below with a grade of C or better does not guarantee classification as a major or minor in the discipline concerned; the student must be recommended by the chair of the department in which the major or minor is sought. If, in the opinion of the chair, the quality of the student's work is not high enough, additional work, the repetition of courses, or other evidences of superior scholarship may be required. Credit in the College of Communication and Fine Arts may be granted for validated learning from experience or non-traditional instruction. Guidelines for this procedure may be obtained in the office of the Dean of the College of Communication and Fine Arts. The college requires a one semester physical activity course. A student may elect to take the course on a credit/no credit basis. Only students in the following programs may apply more than 8 semester hours of physical activity courses toward the specified minimum degree requirement: B.F.A. Theatre major with a concentration in Performance or Dance, or a Theatre or Dance minor. In addition to PHED 1000 level courses, MUAP 2002, DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; or THEA 2501 may be selected to fulfill the physical activity requirement. BACHELOR OF FINE ARTS DEGREE REQUIREMENTS In ART In THEATRE BACHELOR OF FINE ARTS (IN ART) The Bachelor of Fine Arts in Art is a professional degree. The requirements provide the student a greater opportunity for specialization in art than the other baccalaureate programs. The specific degree requirements are divided into five groups: (1 ) general education, (2) basic art courses, (3) courses in one of the five concentration areas, (4) elective courses in art and (5) elective courses other than art to bring the total to 139 semester hours. The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]Advanced Placement Credit: A score of three (3), four (4) or five (5) points on the Advanced Placement General Portfolio or the Drawing Portfolio will entitle students to have their portfolios reviewed for the possible award of up to three credit hours. If a student submits art for two separate Advanced Placement portfolios (junior and senior years), a maximum of six credit hours may be awarded. For a grade of three (3) points in the Drawing Portfolio or three (3), four (4) or five (5) points in the General Portfolio, three hours of unassigned studio elective credit may be awarded. For a grade of four (4) or five (5) points in the Drawing Portfolio, three hours of basic art credit in ART 1311 (Beginning Drawing) will be considered. To determine how Advanced Placement credit will be awarded, all Advanced Placement portfolios must be reviewed within the department for consistency with standards appropriate to the performance level and range of enrolled students. New Department Advising: (1) First semester Freshmen are advised by the Academic Counseling Unit. Students without pre-college level requirements may request an Art Advisor during the first semester. ACU advises until a major is declared and until high school deficiencies are removed. (2) A General Art Advisor is assigned until a concentration interest is selected (see Concentrations.) (3) An Art Advisor is assigned only when an Art major is declared. The process of changing to a major in Art begins in ACU. (4) A Program Advisor is assigned when the concentration interest is declared. The Program Advisor advises students through the concentration admission process (see Candidacy Review), and remains as advisor until graduation. (5) The College of Communication and Fine Arts Graduation Analyst must be consulted at least twice: first, after accruing 100 hours; again during the semester prior to the semester of graduation. Permission of the Dean must be obtained before taking courses from another institution intended to apply toward The U of M graduation. (6) Transfer students with fewer than 40 hours are to see the Art Office for advising; transfer students with 40 hours or more must confer with the Graduation Analyst before seeking an Art Advisor. (7) The Art Department strongly recommends regular consultation with the assigned advisor. Assistance from the advisor, however does not relieve students of the responsibility of studying the appropriate catalog and fulfilling all degree requirements. Admission and Retention: A Candidacy Review is required of all students intending to major in art. Admission to The University of Memphis and completion of basic art courses do not guarantee placement in Department of Art concentration areas. Admission is selective and is based on a portfolio evaluation reflecting professional standards and expectations of the particular concentration. Space availability may also affect admission decisions. Concentration admission applications are to be made upon the completion of the basic art courses -- ART 1210, 1215, 1311, 1314, 2101, 2102, -- and any additional courses (listed below) required for a specific concentration. A portfolio that includes but is not limited to works from these courses is required as part of the application. Guidelines and application forms for admission to a concentration are available from the Department of Art office and from faculty advisors. Transfer students at the sophomore level or higher must meet concentration requirements. Required courses may be satisfied either through transfer credit or by courses taken at The University of Memphis. Upon completion of the Candidacy Review, the student is notified of one of the following: 1) acceptance to the concentration; 2) one semester acceptance on a probationary status; 3) recommendation to pursue studies in another area of art; 4) recommendation to correct deficiencies and reapply; or 5) denial of concentration admission. Concentration Entrance Requirements: Art Education; or Ceramics, Painting, Printmaking, and Sculpture; or Photography: ART 2213, 2314, (Photography applicants take 2702 instead of 2314), plus two or more from: 2331, 2351, 2511, 2523, or 2701. Portfolios are to be presented for review in the second semester of the sophomore year or during the semester when the student completes these requirements. Permission to enroll in 3000 or 4000 level studio courses depends upon acceptance into a concentration. Graphic Design: ART 2213, 2221, and 2313. Students are to apply for portfolio review during the semester they complete the basic art courses and these three courses. Permission to enroll in any 3000 or 4000 level graphic design course is based upon the review. Interior Design: ART 2233 and 2234. Students are to include work from the basic art courses plus these two courses. Portfolios are reviewed when the applicant completes these courses. Permission to enroll in any 3000 or 4000 level interior design course is based upon this review. The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]Graduation: For the B.F.A. degree, a total of 139 semester hours is required for graduation, 90 of which must be in professional course work. A minimum of 42 upper division semester hours is required for this degree. A minimum grade of C is required in all art courses. 1. General Education Courses English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101, 1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): COMM 2381. Mathematics (3-6 hours) MATH 1181 and 1182; or one of the following: MATH 1312,1321 (4), 2000. Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or ENGL 2202. Fine Arts Heritage: Not required for students who meet all B.F.A. in Art requirements for graduation. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302, PHIL 1102, POLS 1102, UNIV 2860, 3581. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one of the following: ANTH 3282, GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881, POLS 4212, POLS 4405; SOCI 3422. Social Science (6 hours): One course from list A and one course from list A or B: A. (Global Perspective): ANTH 1200, CJUS 2110, ECON 2110, GEOG 1301, GEOG 1401, POLS 2301, POLS 2501, PSYC 2201, SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/CSED 2101, UNIV 2304. B. ANTH 1100, CJUS 1100, ECON 2120, POLS 1100, PSYC 1101, SOCI 1111. Natural Science (8 hours-Sequence required): BIOL 1051, 1052, 1061, 1062; BIOL 1151, 1152, 1161, 1162; CHEM 1101, 1102; CHEM 1131, 1121, 1132, 1122; GEOG 1001, 1011, 1002, 1022; GEOL 1101, 1103; PHYS 1001, 1010, 1002, 1020; PHYS 2003, 2510, 2004, 2520, or UNIV 1610, 1611. Fitness and Wellness (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002, THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100,1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100,1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). Computation Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as computation intensive and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of the General Education mathematics requirement. Writing Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as writing intensive and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of the General Education English composition requirement. Integrative (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as integrative and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of General Education English composition, oral communication, and mathematics requirements. Computer Literacy (3 semester hours): COMP 1200, a course of study approved by the dean, or passing an approved computer literacy examination. Art Education students may take ICL 3600 instead. 2. Basic Art Courses (18 hours) ART 1210, 1215, 1311, 1314, 2101, 2102. 3. Art History (12 hours) Upper division semester hours in art history courses; no more than 3 hours of museum studies may be used to satisfy this requirement. Interior Design students must take ART 3103, 3104; Graphic Design students must take ART 4224; Photography students must take ART 4721 and 4156. Ceramics, Painting, Printmaking, Sculpture students and Art Education students must take ART 4156. 4. Concentration Areas: The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]a. Ceramics, Painting, Printmaking, and Sculpture (54 hours): ART 2313, 2314, 2331, 2351, 2511, 2523, 2701, 4611 plus ten (10) additional courses from those listed below: Ceramics: ART 3524, 4521, 4522 Painting: ART 3332, 4321, 4322, 4331, 4332 Printmaking: ART 3351, 3352, 4351, 4352 Sculpture: ART 3511, 3512, 4511, 4512 ART 4610, 4621, 4622 All required 2000 level art courses must be completed before enrollment in 4000 level studio classes. b. Graphic Design (48 hours): ART 2213, 2221, 2351, 2701, 4211, 3213, 3221, 3222, 3227, 4221, 4222, 4223, 4232 or 4233, 4235, 4341, and one of the following: ART 3312, 3225, 4223, 4231, 4232 or 4233. c. Interior Design (48 hours): ART 1233, 2233, 2234, 2238, 3233, 3234, 3235, 3236, 3237, 3238, 3312, 4237, 4238, 4239, 4240, 4251. d. Art Education (45 hours): ART 2313, 2314, 2331, 2351, 2511, 2523, 2701, 3411, 3431, 4321, 4410, 4610; EDPR 2111, ICL 2601 (1 hr), 3000, 4715 (2 hrs). All required 2000 level art courses must be completed before enrollment in 4000 level studio classes. e. Photography (51 hours) ART 2313, 2331, 2351, 2511, 2523, 2701, 2702, 3701, 4611, 4701, 4702, 4703, 4704, 4711 (6 hours), 4712 (6 hours). All required 2000 level art courses must be completed before enrollment in 4000 level studio classes. 5. Art Electives to complete the total of 90 semester hours. 6. Elective Courses other than art to complete the total of 139 semester hours. These courses will be chosen by students in consultation with their advisors and the chair of the Department of Art. BACHELOR OF FINE ARTS (IN THEATRE) The Bachelor of Fine Arts degree is a program specifically designed for students whose certain interests and abilities strongly suggest the potential for pursuing careers as artists in the resident, professional, community, or academic theatre. To expand the student's creative powers and deepen the commitment to a vocation in the theatre, the B.F.A. program offers the student (1) a basic probing of all the arts and crafts of the theatre; (2) an exploration in depth of one area of special interest; (3) the opportunity to participate creatively as a theatre artist through extensive production experience. Three areas of specialization are offered: I. Performance, II. Design and Technical Production, and III. Dance. Students entering the B.F.A. program will elect one of these three areas for concentrated study. The student normally will begin specialized training and the audition/portfolio review process at the end of the sophomore year. Admission and Retention Criteria: Admission and retention in the B.F.A. program in Theatre are based on selective procedures in the form of portfolio reviews held yearly and/or auditions held twice yearly. Following their audition/interview or portfolio review/interview, applicants will be notified as to whether they have been accepted into the program, accepted for one more semester on a probationary basis, or advised to pursue another degree. (1) Performance: Admission and retention in the Performance concentration are based on an audition and interview. In addition to the interview, the student is expected to present an audition consisting of a song, a group dance audition, and presentation of two monologues from plays of distinctly different styles and/or periods. The total time of the monologues may not exceed five minutes. (2) Design and Technical Production: Admission and retention in the Design and Technical Production concentration are based on portfolio review and interview. In addition to the interview, the student is expected to present a portfolio of artistic and production work. This may consist of items including The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]photographs, sketches, costume plates, elevations, lighting plots, and ground plans. (3) Dance: Admission and retention in the Dance concentration are based on an audition and interview. In addition to the interview, the student is expected to participate in a group audition designed to demonstrate dance technique and performance skills. Retention: The fact must be emphasized that admission to the B.F.A. curriculum does not imply a student's permanent tenure in the program. Beyond the audition interview or portfolio review, the student's active participation in the co-curricular activities of the department will be assessed by the theatre faculty. Artistic growth, development of technical facility, and continuing commitment to creative excellence on the part of the student will be evaluated. Permission to continue in the program will be based on this evaluation.Transfer of Credit: In certain cases students may be admitted to an advanced level of the B.F.A. program. Such admission will be based upon: (1) an audition and interview; (2) the student's previous course work in theatre, particularly in the area of special interest; (3) the student's previous involvements in production experience, (4) letters of recommendation from former Theatre Arts instructors and/or directors. Even if admitted to an advanced standing, the student will be required to remedy previous course deficiencies.Advising: Upon admission to the B.F.A. program, each student will be assigned a faculty advisor. For this degree, 136 semester hours are required for graduation. A minimum grade of C is required in all theatre courses applicable to the major. The student must maintain an overall quality point average of 2.0. 1. General Education Courses English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101, 1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): COMM 2381. Mathematics (3-6 hours): MATH 1181 and 1182; or one of the following: MATH 1312, 1321 (4), 2000. Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202. Fine Arts Heritage (3 hours): THEA 1551. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301 PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302, PHIL 1102, POLS 1102, UNIV 2860, 3581. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one of the following: ANTH 3282, GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881, POLS 4212, POLS 4405, SOCI 3422. Social Science (6 hours): Select one course from list A and one course from list A or B: A. (Global Perspective): ANTH 1200, CJUS 2110, ECON 2110, GEOG 1301, GEOG 1401, POLS 2301, POLS 2501, PSYC 2201, SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/CSED 2101, UNIV 2304. B. ANTH 1100, CJUS 1100, ECON 2120, POLS 1100, PSYC 1101, SOCI 1111. Natural Science (8 hours-Sequence required): BIOL 1051, 1052, 1061, 1062; BIOL 1151, 1152, 1161, 1162; CHEM 1101, 1102; CHEM 1131, 1121, 1132, 1122; GEOG 1001, 1011, 1002, 1022; GEOL 1101, 1103; PHYS 1001, 1010, 1002, 1020; PHYS 2003, 2510, 2004, 2520; or UNIV 1610, 1611. Fitness and Wellness (5 hours): HPER 1100 plus THEA 2501. Computation Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as computation intensive and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of the General Education mathematics requirement. Writing Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as writing intensive and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of the General Education English composition requirement. Integrative (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as integrative and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of General Education English composition, oral communication, and mathematics requirements. The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]Computer Literacy: COMP 1200, a course of study approved by the dean, or passing an approved computer literacy examination. 2. Basic Theatre Core Courses (26 hours): THEA 1411, 1561, 2511, 2531, 3412, 4 of 3601-3607 (4), 4551 or 4552, 4582. 3. Concentration Areas Performance, Design and Technical Production, and Dance. Individual concentration course sequence to be determined in conference with student's advisor. Emphasis in specific areas will determine sequence structure. FOR EXAMPLE: a. Performance THEA 2532, 3212, 3213, 3411, 3505, 3506, 3531, 3532, 3551 (1), 1 of 3601-3607 (1), 4455, 4457, 4521, *4541 (6), 4551 or 4552 (to complement theatre history core requirement); elective courses chosen in conference with the student's advisor. b. Design and Technical Production THEA 2512, 3511, 3561, 3562, 2 of 3601-3607 (2), *4541 (6), 4555, 4556, 4557; 4551 or 4552 (to complement theatre history core requirement), 4561, 4562, 4563, 4564, 4591[C], 4592; elective courses chosen in conference with the student's advisor.c. Dance DANC 1151, 2101, 2821, 2825, 3101, 3201, 3829 (16), 4101, 4201, 4301 (1-3); plus select two from among THEA 3505, 3506, 4501; *4541 (3); elective courses chosen in conference with the student's advisor. *NOTE: THEA 4541 Internship (see course description section.): The intent of this requirement and course is to provide the student experience in a full-time theatre production situation. Off-campus participation (usually following the junior year) is an essential element of the B.F.A. degree program. Details are to be planned in advance in conference with the student's advisor. The Minor: Any student wishing to minor in any area of the Department of Theatre and Dance should see the department chair who will assign an appropriate advisor. The minor must consist of at least 18 hours of approved coursework, 9 of which must be upper division. Coursework for all minors will be determined by the student in conference with the advisor with the approval of the department chair. HONORS PROGRAM The Honors Program offers superior students the opportunity to engage in an intensive and individualized course of study leading to a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree with Departmental Honors. The program enables honors students to develop their particular talents, interests, and abilities within a curriculum designed to encourage academic independence and creativity. Admission: To be eligible for admission to the Honors program, a student must meet the following requirements: (a) the completion of 55 semester hours of college course work (or Junior standing), (b) an overall quality point average of 3.25 or better, (c) a departmental quality point average of 3.25 or better. Students who have not met all of these requirements may apply for admission into the program, and their applications will be considered on a "provisional admittance" basis. Applications may be obtained from the Director of the Honors Program or from the main office of the department. Completed applications should be submitted to the Director of the Honors Program at least two weeks before the end of each semester. Students may be admitted to the program at the end of any semester (including summer semesters). Requirements: To graduate with departmental honors, an honors student must fulfill the following requirements:(a) The completion of at least 18 hours of honors work. Twelve of these hours must be in upper division departmental honors work, and a maximum of 6 hours may be in lower division or extra-departmental honor work.(b) The completion of an honors project or thesis in the senior year. (c) The maintenance of an overall quality point average of 3.0 and a departmental quality point average of 3.25. The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]An honors student may earn departmental undergraduate honors credit in three ways: (1) by taking THEA 4980, "Honors Studies" (for a maximum of 15 hours credit); (2) by taking THEA 4999, "Senior Honors Thesis" (for a maximum of six hours); and (3) by taking THEA 4982, "Honors Seminar" (for a maximum of 9 hours) for a combined total of no more than 18 hours. This will allow honors students to enroll in those departmental seminars that most specifically reflect their particular interests in theatre. An honors student majoring in any field of concentration in the department will be able to substitute honors credit for certain track requirements for graduation. Contracting for honors credit in other courses or enrolling in Independent Study or Special Problems courses will not fulfill Honors Program requirements. After completing 6 hours of Honors Studies, honors students may begin work on their projects or theses. These projects will be under the direct supervision of the Director of the Honors Program although students may ask any member of the departmental faculty to sit on their committees (three faculty members will sit on each student's committee). Typically, an honors student earns 6 hours of credit for the project, 3 of which reflect a semester of research or preparation, while the final 3 hours reflect a semester of writing or assembling the project. The honors project does not have to be a thesis; the nature of the project will depend on the student's interests, talents, and course work and will be decided on an individual basis by the Director of the Honors Program. For further information about the Honors Program, contact the chair, Department of Theatre and Dance. BACHELOR OF MUSIC DEGREE REQUIREMENTS In COMMERCIAL MUSIC In MUSIC BACHELOR OF MUSIC (IN COMMERCIAL MUSIC) The Bachelor of Music degree in Commercial Music is designed for students whose interests and abilities indicate a strong potential for significant achievement in music industry. Four concentrations available are: Jazz and Studio Performance; Jazz and Studio Composition/Arranging; Music Business; and Recording Technology.Admission: Admission is based on selective procedures, and admission to the university does not guarantee placement in the Commercial Music Program. Stringent quality control is essential; therefore, an assessment is required of all students desiring to enter the program. Entrance requirements vary by concentration. Specific admissions criteria may be obtained through the office of the Chairman, Department of Music. Through the admissions procedure, preliminary estimates of student commitment and potential success can be made. Upon admission, the student will be assigned a CMUS advisor. Retention: The student's progress and continued potential will be reviewed twice yearly by the appropriate Commercial Music faculty. Permission to continue in the program will be based upon this evaluation. Retention criteria may be obtained through the office of the Chairman, Department of Music. Piano Proficiency: All students concentrating in Jazz and Studio Performance and Jazz and Studio Composition/Arranging with the exception of keyboard majors, must pass the Commercial Music piano proficiency examination before their last semester in the program. Ensembles: The individual programs in the B.M. degree in Commercial Music have various ensemble requirements. Students in recording technology and music business have no ensemble requirement; students in jazz and studio performance must accumulate 14 hours credit in the appropriate level jazz or studio ensemble(s) before graduation; students in composition/arranging must accumulate 6 hours credit in the appropriate level jazz or studio ensemble(s) before graduation. Ensemble assignments must be made in consultation with the student's advisor. Experiential Learning: Credit may be awarded for validated learning from experience or non-traditional instruction. Students who wish to apply for credit for experiential learning may obtain guidelines for this The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]procedure from the Dean of the College of Communication and Fine Arts. (See Fees and Charges, for related fee information.) Graduation from the Program: Graduation requirements vary by concentration. For students in the Music Business and Recording Technology concentrations, a minimum of 139 hours is required for graduation; a minimum grade of C and a quality point average of 2.5 are required in all courses in the core and concentration. For students in the Composition/Arranging and Studio/Live Performance concentrations, a minimum of 139 hours is required for graduation; a minimum grade of C and a quality point average of 3.0 are required in all courses in the core and concentration. 1. General Education Courses (40-42 hours) English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101, 1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): COMM 2381. Mathematics (3-6 hours): MATH 1181 and 1182; or one of the following: MATH 1312,1321 (4), 2000. NOTE: Students in Music Business and Recording Technology MUST take MATH 1312 (See prerequisite). Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202. Fine Arts Heritage: Not required for students who meet all B.M. requirements for graduation. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302, PHIL 1102, POLS 1102, UNIV 2860, 3581. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one of the following: ANTH 3282, GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881, POLS 4212, POLS 4405, SOCI 3422. Social Science (3 hours): ANTH 1100, ANTH 1200, CJUS 1100, CJUS 2110, ECON 2110, ECON 2120, GEOG 1301, GEOG 1401, POLS 1100, POLS 2301, POLS 2501, PSYC 1101, PSYC 2201, SOCI 1111, SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/CSED 2101, UNIV 2304. Natural Science (8 hours-Sequence required): BIOL 1051, 1052, 1061, 1062; BIOL 1151, 1152, 1161, 1162; CHEM 1101, 1102; CHEM 1131, 1121, 1132, 1122; GEOG 1001, 1011, 1002, 1022; GEOL 1101,1103; PHYS 1001, 1010, 1002, 1020; PHYS 2003, 2510, 2004, 2520; or UNIV 1610, 1611. Fitness and Wellness (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002, THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). Computation Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as computation intensive and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of the General Education mathematics requirement. Writing Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as writing intensive and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of the General Education English composition requirement. Integrative (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as integrative and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of General Education English composition, oral communication, and mathematics requirements. Computer Literacy: COMP 1200, a course of study approved by the dean, or by passing an approved computer literacy examination.2. Commercial Music Core Courses (24 hours) MUTC 1008 (3), 1009 (3),1010 (1), 1011 (1), 2008 (3); MUHL 3302 (3); MUSE 1105 (2); CMUS 1116 (2), 2101 (3), 4602 (3). 3. Concentration Areas a. Jazz and Studio Performance (75-76 hours) MUTC 2010 (1), 3008 (3), 3009 (1); CMUS 2102 (3), CMUS 3802 (4), 3828 (2); MUAP 1000 (4); MUHL 4806 (3); one The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]of the following (3-4): CMUS 3100, 3101, or CMUS 4603; CMUS 4895 (3) (23-24) Individual lessons on a major instrument or in voice, of which a minimum of 4 hours must be in upper division courses (16) Instruction on a secondary instrument or in voice (piano majors take MUTC 2511) (2) MUAP 3012 and/or 3013 (8) MUAP 3014 and/or 3015 (4) (4) MUAP 3103 (6) CMUS 3825 (3) CMUS 3826 (3) CMUS 3827 (3) CMUS 4103 (3) These courses have separate sections for voice and instrumental students. b. Jazz and Studio Composition/Arranging (75-78 hours) MUTC 2010 (1), 3008 (3), 3009 (1); CMUS 2102 (2), CMUS 3802 (4), 3828 (2); MUAP 1000 (4); MUHL 4806 (3); one of the following (3-4): CMUS 3100, 3101, CMUS 4603; CMUS 4896 (4) (23-24) Major instrument or voice (7) MUSE 1101 (2), 1104 (2), 1116 (2); MUAP 1312 (2) (pianists take MUSE 1111 ); MUAP 1411 or 1412 (2) (percussionists take MUSE 1111 ); MUTC 2501 (2), 2511 (2), 4206 (2); two semesters each of: MUAP 3012 and/or 3103; 3014, and/or 3015; 3103 (vocalists may take MUAP 3601); CMUS 2501 (2), 2502 (2), 3501 (2), 4102 (3), 4501 (3), 4502 (3) (38-39) Two of the following: CMUS 3801, 3825, 4103; MUTC 4207 (5-6) c. Music Business (75 hours) CMUS 3100 (3), 3101 (3), 3103 (3), 3801 (2), CMUS 3802 (4), 4504 (3), 4603 (3), 4804 (3), 4898 (4); MUAP 1000 (2), Applied Music Instruction (8); one of the following: MUHL 4801, 4804, 4805, 4806, or 4807 (3); COMM 4811 (3), 4812 (3), 4831 (3), FIR 3011 (3), 3410 (3), 4440 (3) 4870 (3), ACCT 2010 (3), 2020 (3), 3010 (3); ISDS 2710 (3); electives to bring the total to 139 hours. d. Recording Technology (75 hours) CMUS 3100 (3), 3101 (3), 3103 (3), CMUS 3800 (4), 3801 (2), 4603 (3), 4800 (4), 4802 (4), 4803 (4), 4804 (3), 4805 (3), 4898 (4); MUAP 1000 (2), Applied Music Instruction (8); one of the following: MUHL 4801, 4804, 4805, 4806, or 4807 (3); COMM 3821 (3), 3823 (4), 3824 (4), 4812 (3); FIR 3011 (3); TECH 1811 (3); electives to bring the total to 139 hours. BACHELOR OF MUSIC (IN MUSIC) The Bachelor of Music with a major in Music is a professional degree, the requirements for which provide the student with an opportunity for specialization in the traditional disciplines of music and music education. A minimum grade of C is required in every graded course applicable toward the major. The student must maintain an overall quality point average of 2.0. Exception: School Music concentration: (1) overall quality point average of 2.25; (2) quality point average no less than 2.25 in all courses taken at The University of Memphis excluding all credit transferred from other institutions; (3) quality point average no less than 2.5 in all music courses; (4) quality point average no less than 2.5 in all required professional education courses; (5) grade of C or above in each professional education and music course. The specific degree requirements are divided into five groups: (1) general education, (2) basic music courses, (3) courses required for the The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]specific emphasis chosen by the student, (4) music electives and (5) elective courses other than music and music education to bring the total of semester hours taken to 132 (134 for school music concentration). All students must complete a minimum of 42 hours at the upper division level. Transfer students must complete at least 30 semester hours of music and/or music education courses at the upper division level at The University of Memphis. Admission: All applicants seeking admission as freshman music majors or as transfer students must complete and submit to the Admissions Office of The University of Memphis an appropriate formal application form. In addition to academic considerations, admission to the music degree program requires a personal interview and an audition. The audition consists of (1) performance in the student's major applied area, (2) a music theory examination and (3) a piano placement exam. Candidates are accepted on the basis of accomplishment, potential and suitability for the concentration they wish to pursue. Students seeking admittance as music majors in the fall term should apply no later than August 1, and those seeking admittance in the spring term should apply no later than December 1. Additional information on specific audition requirements and on interview/audition appointments may be obtained through the office of the Department of Music. Degree Requirements (figures in parentheses indicate semester hours credit): 1. General Education Courses (42-45 hours) English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101, 1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): COMM 2381. Mathematics (3-6 hours): MATH 1181 and 1182; or one of the following: MATH 1312, 1321 (4), 2000. Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202. Fine Arts Heritage: Not required for students who meet all B.M. requirements for graduation. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302, PHIL 1102, POLS 1102, UNIV 2860, 3581. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one of the following: ANTH 3282, GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881, POLS 4212, POLS 4405, SOCI 3422. Social Science (3 hours): ANTH 1100, ANTH 1200, CJUS 1100, CJUS 2110, ECON 2110, ECON 2120, GEOG 1301, GEOG 1401, POLS 1100, POLS 2301, POLS 2501, PSYC 1101, PSYC 2201, SOCI 1111, SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/CSED 2101, UNIV 2304. NOTE: Students in School Music MUST take PSYC 1101. Natural Science (8 hours-Sequence required): BIOL 1051, 1052, 1061, 1062; BIOL 1151, 1152, 1161, 1162; CHEM 1101, 1102; CHEM 1131, 1121, 1132, 1122; GEOG 1001, 1011, 1002, 1022; GEOL 1101,1103; PHYS 1001, 1010, 1002, 1020; PHYS 2003, 2510, 2004, 2520; or UNIV 1610, 1611. Fitness and Wellness (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002, THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115. and 4121). Computation Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as computation intensive and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of the General Education mathematics requirement. Writing Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as writing intensive and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of the General Education English composition requirement. Integrative (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as integrative and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of General Education English composition, oral communication, and mathematics requirements. Computer Literacy: COMP 1200, a course of study approved by the dean, or by passing an approved computer literacy examination. The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]2. Basic Music Courses (37.5-42 hours) MUTC 1008 1010 1009,1011, 2008, 2010, 3008, 3009, 3010, 3101, 3102 (MUTC 3102 not required in School Music concentration) (22) MUHL 3301, 3302, History of Music (6) MUSE 3700 Basic Conducting (2) Piano Proficiency: All undergraduate music majors must take a piano placement examination before enrolling in applied music courses. This evaluation will place students in the appropriate piano class (MUSE 1105, 1106, 2107, 2108) to develop the skills necessary to pass the Piano Proficiency Examination. All students in the Bachelor of Music (in Music) degree program must pass the Piano Proficiency Examination before the beginning of the senior year. This may be done in either of two ways: (1) by completing MUSE 2108 or (2) by passing without credit the piano proficiency exam given once each semester. Piano proficiency requirements vary according to the area of concentration. A verification will be mailed to the student and to appropriate officials upon completion of the examination. After successful completion of this examination, music students whose major instrument is not piano may audition for major group or private instruction in piano. Ensembles: All music majors seeking the B.M. in Music, regardless of concentration, must be enrolled in an ensemble of some kind every semester in which they are enrolled in applied lessons. Before graduation, all candidates for this degree must have accumulated a minimum of 8 semesters in an appropriate Large Ensemble (listed below under LARGE ENSEMBLES.) Exceptions to this policy are as follows: 1. Piano performance and guitar performance students must have 6 semesters of large ensemble. 2. Transfer students who, because of transfer, will lack sufficient large ensemble credits must contact the department chair for alternative recommendations or exceptions. 3. Any other request for exception will be reviewed by the department chair, the appropriate ensemble director(s) and the applied teacher. Ensemble assignments are based on audition and may be repeated but not for the purpose of improving a grade.Applied Music Workshop: MUAP 1000 is required of all music majors for eight semesters. 3. Major: Music Concentration Areas (choose one): a. Performance (45-60 hours). Instruction in performance leading to the Bachelor of Music in Music with a concentration in Performance is provided for the following areas: Trumpet, Horn, Trombone, Tuba, and Euphonium (Brass Instruments); Piano, Harpsichord, and Organ (Keyboard Instruments); Percussion; Violin, Viola, Violoncello, Bass, Guitar, and Harp (String Instruments), Flute, Oboe, Clarinet, Saxophone, and Bassoon (Woodwind Instruments); and Voice. Individual instruction in major performance area (26) Instruction in secondary performance area, repertory, and/or pedagogy: (6) For Brass Instruments: 2 hours each in individual instruction in two secondary brass instruments; group instruction in woodwind instruments. For Woodwind Instruments: 2 hours each in individual instruction in two secondary woodwind instruments; group instruction in brass instruments. For Percussion: group instruction in brass instruments: woodwind instruments, and string instruments. For String Instruments: 2 hours each in individual instruction in 2 secondary string instruments; 2 hours in appropriate pedagogy or repertory courses. The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]For Keyboard Instruments, Guitar, and Voice: 6 hours in appropriate courses in repertory, pedagogy, vocal diction, and accompanying.Music History elective: Choose from MUHL 4001, 4005, 4006, 4007, 4401, 4402, 4403, 4404, 4405, 4406, 4407, 4500, 4804, 4805, 4806, 4807 in consultation with major advisor. (3) Music Theory elective: Choose from MUTC 4205, 4206, 4207, 4208, or 4209 in consultation with major advisor. (2-3) Junior Recital (1) MUAP 4999. Artist Recital (3) Small Ensembles (4-6) 4 semesters of small ensembles, chosen from those listed under "Small Ensembles and Chamber Music" in consultation with the major advisor, is required. 6 hours of MUAP 3301 (Chamber Music for Pianists) is required of students in Piano. For students in voice, 6 hours in one of the following languages that must be different from admission requirement language: French, German, or Italian; plus MUSE 4211-Vocal Diction I and MUSE 4212-Vocal Diction II. (10) b. Sacred Music: (37-43 hours) Individual Instruction in Voice or Organ (14) MUSA 4104, 4105 Sacred Music in History and Practice I & II (6) MUSE 4701 Choral Conducting (2) MUSA 4106 Children's Choirs in the Church (3) MUAP 4999. Artist Recital (3) For students in Voice: MUSE 1111 Class Instruction in Guitar (1) Small Ensembles (4) Music Electives (4) For students in Organ: Individual Instruction in Voice (4), MUSA 4107 Service Playing for Organists (3), MUHL 4005 History and Literature of the Organ (3), Small Ensembles (2), Music Electives (2) c. Composition: (47 hours) Individual instruction in applied music to include two semesters of piano (8) MUTC 2501 Composition (2) MUTC 2502 Composition (4) MUTC 4501 Composition (at least three semesters) (6) MUTC 4511 Intermediate Electronic Music (2) MUTC 4512 Advanced Electronic Music (2) MUTC 4201 Studies in Music Theory and Composition (9), 002 Sixteenth Century Counterpoint, 003 Eighteenth Century Counterpoint, 004 Twentieth Century Counterpoint, 007 Advanced Orchestration MUTC 4101 Compositional Techniques of the Twentieth Century (3) MUSE 3702 Score Reading (3) MUHL 4406 Twentieth Century Music (3) MUTC 4599 Senior Composition Recital (3) MUAP 3402 Contemporary Chamber Players (2) d. Music History: (45 hours) Individual instruction in applied music (10) The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]MUHL 4259 Studies in Bibliography (3) Concentration electives chosen in consultation with major advisor (11) Advanced Music History (12) Foreign Language; 6 semester hours in addition to requirements for admission (6) MUHL 4999: Senior Project in Music History (3) e. School Music: (44-49 hours) Core: (22-25 hours) EDPR 2111 Development Across the Life Span (3) ICL 2601 Clinical Experience (1) ICL 3000 Principles of Teaching (3) ICL 4715 Clinical/Practicum (2) MUSE 1101, 1103, 1104, 1116 Class Instruction in Brass Instruments, Percussion Methods, Woodwind Instruments, Stringed Instruments (4) MUSE 4203 Materials and Methods of Classroom Music (3) SPED 2000 Introduction to the Exceptional Learner (3) MUSE 1112, 1113 Class Instruction in Voice (2) (not required of students enrolled in Applied Voice) MUAP 4998 Senior Performance Project (3) Instrumental Emphasis: (18-20 hours) MUSE 4204 Instrumental Music in Elementary and Secondary Education (2) MUSE 4700 Instrumental Conducting (2) MUSE 4205 Marching Band Techniques (2) (not required of students who are String principals) Applied Music: Individual instruction in a major instrument: at least 2 hours must be taken at the upper division level (12) Choral Emphasis: (25 hours) MUSE 1111 Class Instruction in Guitar (1) MUSE 1117 Class Recorder (1) MUSE 4202 Materials and Methods of Music, Grades K-6 (3) MUSE 4207 Choral Methods and Materials (2) MUSE 4211 Vocal Diction (2) MUSE 4701 Choral Conducting (2) Applied Music: Individual instruction in voice or a major instrument; at least 2 hours must be taken at the upper division level (12) 4. Music Electives: at least 6 semester hours in upper division music courses selected from a concentration area other than the one chosen for the major. 5. Elective Courses to bring the total to a minimum of 132 semester hours (134 for students in School Music). These courses will be chosen by the student in consultation with the advisor and major professor. BACHELOR OF ARTS The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]To qualify for the degree of Bachelor of Arts the student must complete a minimum of 132 semester hours with a quality point average of 2.0. Of the 132 semester hours required for graduation, at least 42 semester hours must be in courses from the Upper Division. No more than 42 semester hours in any one subject will be counted toward a degree. GENERAL EDUCATION AND B.A. DEGREE REQUIREMENTS English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101, 1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication (3 hours): COMM 2381. Foreign Language (6 hours): Two courses in a single foreign language at or above the 2000 level. Mathematics (6-10 hours): MATH 1181 and 1182; or MATH 2000; or MATH 1312 or 1321 (4); plus one additional course chosen from any MATH course numbered 1211 or higher, or PHIL 1611. Literary Heritage (6 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202, plus one course chosen from: CLAS 3412, 3413, 3414; ENGL 3100-09, 3210, 3211, 3212, 3213, 3214, 3220, 3221, 3222, 3224, 3321, 3322, 3323, 4231, 4232, 4233, 4234, 4241, 4242, 4251, 4252, 4321, 4322, 4323, 4341, 4342, 4371, 4411, 4412, 4423, 4424, 4441, 4451, 4461; FREN 3411, 4412; GERM 3411, 3412, 4443, 4451, 4465; GREK 3111, 3511, 3911, 4441; LALI 4010, 4491, 4493; LATN 3111, 3211, 3912, 4411, 4711; RUSS 3441, 3442, 3443; SPAN 4410, 4431, 4432, 4510, 4561, 4562; THEA 4582. Fine Arts Heritage (6 hours-must select two different disciplines): One course from: ART 1101, COMM 1851, DANC 1151, MUHL 1101, THEA 1551; plus one course from the previous list or from: ART 2101, THEA 4551, THEA 4552, DANC 3101, MUHL 4800. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302, PHIL 1102, POLS 1102, UNIV 2860, 3581. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one of the following: ANTH 3282, GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881, POLS 4212, POLS 4405, SOCI 3422. Social Science (12 hours): One course from list A, one course from list A or list B, and two courses from lists A, B, or C (no more than 6 hours from any one discipline): A. ANTH 1200, CJUS 2110, ECON 2110, GEOG 1301, GEOG 1401, POLS 2301, POLS 2501, PSYC 2201, SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101 /CSED 2101, UNIV 2304. B. ANTH 1100, CJUS 1100, ECON 2120, POLS 1100, PSYC 1101, SOCI 1111. C. COMM 1780; CJUS 3510; GEOG 3430, 4304, 4305, 4313, 4324, 4431; HIST 4871; JOUR 1700; POLS 3213, 3216, 3506; SOCI 1112, 3401, 3432, 3701, 3831, 3860, 4442, 4631, 4923. Natural Science (11-12 hours): One sequence from list A plus one course in a different science chosen from list A or list B: A. BIOL 1051, 1052, 1061, 1062; BIOL 1151, 1152, 1161, 1162; CHEM 1101, 1102; CHEM 1131, 1121, 1132, 1122; GEOG 1001, 1011, 1002, 1022; GEOL 1101, 1103; PHYS 1001, 1010, 1002, 1020; PHYS 2003, 2510, 2004, 2520; UNIV 1610,1611. B. GEOG 3221, 4111, 4121, 4131, 4201, 4211; PHYS 2111. Fitness and Wellness (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course, DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002, THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). Computation Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as computation intensive and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of the General Education mathematics requirement. Writing Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as writing intensive and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of the General Education English composition requirement. Integrative (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as integrative and approved by advisor. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of General Education English composition, oral communication, and mathematics requirements. Computer Literacy: This requirement may be satisfied by taking COMP 1200, by course of study approved by the dean, or by The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]passing a university-approved computer literacy examination. Major: Completion of requirements for one of the majors listed below. Electives: to bring the total to 132 semester hours. MAJORS (Choose one) ART HISTORY The Major: 36 semester hours in art history courses, including ART 2101, 2102, 4195, and one upper division course each from five of the following art history categories: Ancient, Medieval, Renaissance, Baroque, Modern European, American, and non- European art. A minimum of 6 hours in studio art is also required. ART The Major: (See B.F.A. degree.) The Minor: 24 semester hours in art courses, 9 of which must be from the upper division. Courses selected for the minor are to be approved by the advisor who will be assigned by the department chair. PHOTOGRAPHYThe Major: See B.F.A. degree. The Minor 18 semester hours as follows: ART 2701, 2702, 3701, 4701, 4702, and 4721. JOURNALISMNOTE: Sophomore standing or permission of instructor required for courses at the 2000 level and above. JOUR 2121, which requires typing proficiency, is a prerequisite for journalism majors taking more advanced writing courses in the program. Students must pass the Journalism Department's Writing Proficiency Exam before enrolling for JOUR 2121. This test is offered several times during the year. Prerequisite journalism courses, including JOUR 2121, must be completed with a minimum grade of C before moving on to any course in the program to which the prerequisites are applied. Students majoring in journalism may select only one concentration and may not simultaneously complete within the 132 hours required for the Bachelor of Arts degree, the concentration in film and videotape production within the theatre and communication arts major. Of the 132 hours required for graduation, 90 hours must be other than journalism or journalism skills related courses. Ofthese 90 hours, at least 65 hours must be in liberal arts. Twelve semester hours in a secondary area of emphasis, outside the Department of Journalism, approved by the student's advisor, is recommended. In order to be in compliance with the Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communication accreditation standards, U of M will accept no more than 12 semester hours or the equivalent in journalism courses for transfer from community colleges to be applied toward the degree. The Major: Journalism Core (required of all students majoring in journalism-12 to 15 hours): JOUR 1700, 2121, and 4700. Advertising, Broadcast News and Public Relations students will take one of the following: 4702, 4708, or 4712. News Editorial students will take two of the following: 3700, 4702, 4708, or 4712. Completion of one of the following concentrations: ADVERTISING (30 hours): JOUR 3300, 3322, 3324, 3345, 3900, 4327, 4328; JOUR 3400 or 4330; MKTG 3010. BROADCAST NEWS (22 hours): JOUR 3625, 4120, 4629, 4639, 4655; COMM 3801, 3821. NEWS EDITORIAL (18 hours): JOUR 2123, 3123, 3124, 3900, and one of the following combinations: JOUR 4120 and 4125; JOUR 3205 and 4214; or JOUR 2520 and 3525. PUBLIC RELATIONS (39 hours): JOUR 3400, 3410, 3421, 3900, 4420, and 4440; COMM 3322; MGMT 3110, 4420; MKTG 3010; one course from among: JOUR 3123, 3124, 3205 or 3625; and one course from among: JOUR 3300, 3712, 4430, or COMM 3802. The Minor: Students may qualify for a minor in general journalism by completing 18 semester hours in journalism courses, including JOUR 1700, 2121, 4700, and 9 additional semester hours selected from the upper division. The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]Practical experience is available to all journalism students on The Helmsman; The DeSoto, University yearbook; or in one of the following activities: University Public Information Office, Athletic Publicity Office, Alumni Publicity Office, Photo Service Department. Qualified majors will be chosen for senior-year internships with Memphis newspapers, magazines, advertising-public relations agencies, and broadcasting stations. MUSICThe Major: (See B.M. degree.) The Minor: (25 hours) MUTC 1008, 1010, 1009, 1011, 2008, 2010 (12 hours) MUHL 3301, 3302 (6 hours) Individual instruction in voice or an instrument, four semesters (4 hours) Large ensemble: two semesters (2 hours) MUAP 1000 Applied Music Workshop: two semesters (1 hour) COMMUNICATIONThe Major All students must take COMM 1780 and COMM 2381 and fulfill the requirements for one of the following concentrations: Select one of the following concentration areas: BROADCAST AND ELECTRONIC MEDIA: 37 semester hours, including COMM 3800; 4857; three of: 4810, 4811, 4812, 4831, 4871; three of: 3322, 3330, 3371, 3861, 4011, 4013, 4704, 4853, 4854, one of: 3820, 3821, 3823; and three additional hours in Communication.COMMUNICATION: 36 semester hours, including COMM 3321; 4381; one of: 3322, 4704; two of: 4011, 4013, 4341, 4342, 4375; and 15 additional hours in Communication. FILM AND VIDEO PRODUCTION: 33 semester hours, including COMM 3321 or 3322; 3822; 3823; 3824; 3842; 4824; 4825; two of: 4220-29, 4850, 4851, 4853, 4854, 4856, 4858; and three additional hours in Communication. The Minor: Any student wishing to minor in any area in the Department of Communication should see the department chair who will assign an appropriate advisor. The minor must consist of at least 18 hours of approved coursework, 9 of which must be upper division. Coursework for all minors will be determined by the student in conference with the advisor with the approval of the department chair. HONORS PROGRAM The Honors Program offers superior students the opportunity to engage in an intensive and individualized course of study leading to a Bachelor of Arts degree with Departmental Honors. The program enables honors students to develop their particular talents, interests, and abilities within a curriculum designed to encourage academic independence and creativity. Admission: To be eligible for admission into the Honors program, a student must meet the following requirements: (a) the completion of 55 semester hours of college course work (or Junior standing), (b) an overall quality point average of 3.25 or better, and (c) a departmental quality point average of 3.25 or better. Students who have not met all of these requirements may apply for admission into the program, and their applications will be considered on a "provisional admittance" basis. Applications may be obtained from the Director of the Honors Program or from the main office of the department. Completed applications should be submitted to the Director of the Honors Program at least two weeks before the end of each semester. Students may be admitted to the program at the end of any semester (including summer semesters). Requirements: To graduate with departmental honors, an honors student must fulfill the following requirements: a. The completion of at least 18 hours of honors work. Twelve of these hours must be in upper division departmental honors work, and a maximum of 6 hours may be in lower division or extra-departmental honor work. b. The completion of an honors project or thesis in the senior year. c. The maintenance of an overall quality point average of 3.0 and a departmental quality point average of 3.25. The College of Communication and Fine 12:03:21 PM]An honors student may earn departmental undergraduate honors credit in three ways: (1) by taking COMM 4980, "Honors Studies" (for a maximum of 15 hours credit); (2) by taking COMM 4999, "Senior Honors Thesis" (for a maximum of 6 hours); and (3) by taking COMM 4982, "Honors Seminar" (for a maximum of 9 hours) for a combined total of no more than 18 hours. This will allow honors students to enroll in those departmental seminars that most specifically reflect their particular interests in theatre and communication. An honors student majoring in any field of concentration in the department will be able to substitute honors credit for certain track requirements for graduation. Contracting for honors credit in other courses or enrolling in Independent Study or Special Problems courses will not fulfill Honors Program requirements. After completing 6 hours of Honors Studies, honors students may begin work on their projects or theses. These projects will be under the direct supervision of the Director of the Honors Program although students may ask any member of the departmental faculty to sit on their committees (three faculty members will sit on each student's committee). Typically, an honors student earns 6 hours of credit for the project, 3 of which reflect a semester of research or preparation, while the final 3 hours reflect a semester of writing or assembling the project. The honors project does not have to be a thesis; the nature of the project will depend on the student's interests, talents, and course work and will be decided on an individual basis by the Director of the Honors Program. For further information about the Honors Program, contact the chair, Department of Communication. The College of 12:03:22 PM]THE COLLEGE OF EDUCATIONNATHAN L. ESSEX, Ph.D., Dean Room 215, The College of Education Building PURPOSESThe College of Education is dedicated to preparing students for careers in a variety of professional and related occupational areas. In helping the university pursue its three broad objectives of teaching, public service, and research, the College of Education is committed to the following missions: The first mission of the College of Education is to prepare teachers, other licensed school personnel, and educationally-related professionals who are qualified and competent in both practice and theory. The second mission is to conduct educational and educationally-related research and to engage in the dissemination of the outcomes of that research. The third mission of the college is tightly interwoven with the two preceding missions, that is, to provide teaching, research and service that extends beyond the confines of the campus, to make educational delivery available in its urban setting and at other outreach locations. The departments in the college value the pursuit and practice of quality teaching and research in a multicultural setting. Specifically, the college actively seeks to foster the advancement of knowledge and pedagogy involved in educational training in school and non-school settings. With a priority on urban- related studies, both faculty and students are engaged in timely, diverse experiences of a scholarly nature. This mission and vision for the College of Education is embodied in the theme of Educational Leaders. The college seeks to prepare such leaders who demonstrate a thorough knowledge of the learning process, skill in instructional planning and delivery, and a disposition to create dynamic learning environments that incorporate multicultural knowledge into instructional design and delivery. AREAS OF PROFESSIONAL TRAINING The College of Education offers a wide selection of general and specialized programs that are designed to prepare students for a variety of careers. Careers in Teaching One of the most important professions in a society is teaching its children and young people. Preparing students to become excellent teachers is a primary goal of the College of Education. A career in teaching offers a wide range of specialization choices and opportunities in prekindergarten, kindergarten, elementary, junior high, and senior high schools. Through the College of Education, there are programs at the undergraduate level for licensure in early childhood (PreK-3), elementary (1-8), special education (K-12), and physical education (K-12). Students who wish to prepare for other endorsements in Secondary Education and K-12 teaching fields will be expected to complete a baccalaureate degree in the appropriate teaching area followed by a fifth-year Master of Arts in Teaching or licensure program through the College of Education. Recommendation for teacher licensure in these areas is contingent upon successful completion of the Master of Arts in Teaching degree or licensure program. Preparation for the various teaching areas includes a significant professional education component that emphasizes both a comprehensive knowledge base and an extensive skills requirement to ensure pedagogical competency. To meet these objectives, there is provision for significant laboratory and field The College of 12:03:22 PM]experiences culminating in enhanced student teaching in the student's senior year. Careers in Related Occupational and Professional Areas Career options are available in related occupational and professional areas of Dietetics, Food Systems Management, Fashion Merchandising, and Home Furnishings Merchandising through the Department of Consumer Science and Education. Students have the opportunity to prepare for careers in Therapeutic Recreation, Outdoor Recreation, Recreation Program Administration, Physical Education Instruction, Fitness Management, and Sports Leadership through the Department of Human Movement Sciences and Education. For additional information consult the College of Education General Advisor or the department chair. ORGANIZATION OF THE COLLEGE Five academic departments make up the College of Education: Consumer Science and Education; Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research; Instruction and Curriculum Leadership; Human Movement Sciences and Education; and Leadership. Three departments offer undergraduate degrees, and all departments offer a variety of graduate degree programs. In addition, there are several research and service units in the college: The Office of Teacher Education, The Bureau of Educational Research and Services, The Center for Higher Education, The Reading Center, The Center for Environmental and Energy Education, The Center for Research in Educational Policy, The Barbara K. Lipman Early Childhood School and Research Institute, and the University Campus School. College Honors Program The College of Education Honors Program provides opportunities for students of junior standing to demonstrate excellence in academic achievement. It offers a series of specially designed honors sections and courses from which 18 semester hours must be taken. A 3.25 quality point average must be maintained. Specific information about the College Honors Program may be obtained in the Teacher Education Office. Academic Advising Student advising in The College of Education is an essential support service provided to assist students in the process of clarifying academic goals consistent with their interests, abilities, values, and resources. Advisors provide academic, career, and professional information to assist students in developing realistic personal and career goals. Advisors also provide information about university support services and resources available to students. All undergraduate students entering the college are advised initially by the College of Education general advisor. The general advisor assists students in becoming familiar with programs offered in the college and guides them through the beginning phases of their programs. Later faculty advisors or program coordinators in specific majors assist the students until graduation. This assistance does not relieve the student of the primary responsibility of studying the catalog and fulfilling all degree requirements. ACADEMIC PROGRAMS DepartmentMajorClick below for Major Requirements. Click on Tiger Paw for Course Descriptions Concentration Within MajorDegree Offered Click below for Degree RequirementsDieteticsFood Systems ManagementHome Economics The College of 12:03:22 PM]Consumer Science and Education Consumer Science and EducationInstructionMerchandising- FashionMerchandising- Home Furnishings Bachelor of Science in Education (B.S. Ed.) Human Movement Sciences and EducationPhysical Education Teacher Licensure Non-Licensure Fitness ManagementPhysical Education InstructionSports Leadership Bachelor of Science in Education (B.S. Ed.) Recreation and Park AdministrationOutdoor Recreation AdministrationRecreation Program AdministrationTherapeutic RecreationBachelor of Science in Education (B.S. Ed.) Instruction and CurriculumHuman Development and LearningEarly Childhood Education (PreK-3 Licensure)Elementary Education (1-8 Licensure)Schools and Society (Non-Licensure) Bachelor of Science in Education (B.S. Ed.) Special Education NONEBachelor of Science in Education (B.S. Ed.) B.S.ED Requirements Teacher Licensure Non-Licensure B.S.ED. REQUIREMENTS (TEACHER LICENSURE) Professional Studies for Educators Professional studies in the College of Education consist of both generic courses taken by all persons planning careers as educators and specialized studies related to specific professional practice settings. All teacher education students will study knowledge and skills in human development, basic instruction, technology, foundations, cultural diversity, and children with special needs. Required courses for knowledge and skills include EDPR 2111, LEAD 2010, ICL 3000, ICL 4800, SPED 2000, and student teaching. Necessary skills in assessment, behavior management and specialized instructional methods are incorporated in courses delivered by their respective specialty areas. Specific requirements are listed in the section of the catalog addressing each major. Accreditation The College of 12:03:22 PM]The College of Education holds membership in the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education. Its undergraduate programs, as well as all graduate degree programs through the doctor's degree, for the preparation of teachers and related school personnel, are fully accredited by the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE). Licensure Areas Areas of licensure that are available at the completion of undergraduate education programs include: Special Education Modified K-12 (460) Comprehensive K-12 (461) Physical Ed K-12 (420) Elementary 1-8 (402) Elementary PreK-3 (403) Recommendation for teacher licensure in any of the following teaching areas is contingent on the completion of a baccalaureate degree in the appropriate academic area followed by completion of the Master of Arts in Teaching degree or licensure program: Elementary 1-8 (402) Elementary PreK-3 (403) Special Education Modified K-12 (460) Compreh K-12 (461) Early Ch PreK-1 (465) Secondary (Internship) Secondary (Enhanced Student Teaching) English 7-12 (407) French 7-12 (411) German 7-12 (412) Spanish 7-12 (409) Russian 7-12 (406) Latin 7-12 (410) Mathematics 7-12 (413) Biology 7-12 (415) Chemistry 7-12 (416) Physics 7-12 (417) Earth Science 7-12 (418) History 7-12 (421) Government 7-12 (423) Geography 7-12 (422) Economics 7-12 (424) Psychology 9-12 (426) Sociology 9-12 (425) Vocational Subject Areas Basic Business/Accounting (430) Data Processing (434) Marketing/Econ (471) Consumer Hmkng. 5-12 (450) Care/Gdce Child 9-12 (451) Food Mgt. Prod 9-12 (453) The College of 12:03:22 PM]Other MAT Subject Areas Visual Arts (427) Music Inst. K-12 (429) Music Voc/Gen K-12 (428) Physical Ed K-12 (420) Health K-12 (419) Students who intend to enter the Master of Arts in Teaching program should consult their major advisor or the College of Education General Advisor for information about this program to ensure that the general education curriculum, preprofessional studies, and teacher licensure requirements are completed. Other Graduate Areas Speech/Language PreK-12 (464) Counselor K-12 (487) School Administrator Begin K-12 (B) (481) Old Licensure Areas Still Operating School Psychologist (089) Special Teacher of Reading K-8 (075) Special Teacher of Reading 7-12 (076) Librarian K-12 (073) English as a Second Language Admission to Teacher Education Program Students who plan to pursue an undergraduate program of studies leading to teacher licensure must submit a formal application to the College of Education Teacher Education Program (TEP). Students are encouraged to apply for admission as soon as they enroll in courses in the college. Prerequisites for formal admission to the Teacher Education Program are as follows: 1. Admission application completed and returned. 2. Grade of C or above in ENGL 1101, 1102, COMM 2381, EDPR 2111, and LEAD 2010. 3. Satisfactory scores on the Pre-Professional Skills Tests (PPST) or an ACT Enhanced score of 22 or higher according to the criteria established by the Tennessee State Board of Education and the College of Education, The University of Memphis.4. Minimum of 25 semester hours completed. 5. Overall QPA of no less than 2.5. 6. Satisfactory completion of a personal interview and writing exercise. Appeals1. Students who do not meet the admissions criteria will be allowed to obtain Conditional Admission only if their deficiencies can be remediated within one semester. Conditional Admission status can be secured for one semester only.2. During their next enrollment period, conditionally approved students will be allowed to enroll in professional education courses with the exception of student teaching. If at the end of that semester they are not able to meet the criteria for admission, they will be disapproved. Alternative admissions procedures are under revision. See the Coordinator of Field Experiences for information. RetentionIn order to remain in the Teacher Education Program, students must maintain a 2.50 QPA. If all The College of 12:03:22 PM]requirements for retention have not been met, a faculty committee will review the student's academic record and other pertinent information and set up an interview with the student. Academic, social, and ethical issues can be reviewed in retention decisions. This review may result in a recommendation to the dean of the college for (1) continuation for a specific provisional period with specified conditions for continuation in the program; or (2) dismissal from the program. Pre-Student Teaching Clinical Experiences Students pursuing teacher licensure will complete as a part of their program of studies a variety of clinical experiences that will be completed as a requirement built into professional education courses. Students will be expected to have experiences in a variety of settings and with pupils who reflect differences in age, socio-economic backgrounds, and cultural heritage. Clinical experiences include both laboratory experiences (typically fulfilled on campus) and field experiences (typically fulfilled in PreK-12 school settings). The amount of time to be spent in a clinical experience will vary according to the specific requirement being met. Fulfillment of these experiences requires that students make available out-of-class time between 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. All students are required to complete up to 99 clock hours of approved in-school clinical experiences prior to student teaching. Completion of field experiences will occur in sites arranged and approved by The University of Memphis College of Education Office of Teacher Education. Student Teaching Students who are pursuing degree programs at The University of Memphis which lead to teacher licensure must complete their student teaching requirements in placements arranged, coordinated, and approved by the Coordinator of Field Experiences of the College of Education. Normally, student teaching assignments are full day in length for a designated number of weeks. Student teaching is offered only during the fall and spring semesters in area schools. No student teaching assignments for initial licensure are made during the summer semester. Under the direction of cooperating teachers and university supervisors, opportunities are provided for observation of sound teaching practices and for realistic experiences culminating in assumption of full-time teaching responsibilities.All students are required to complete a professional semester of a minimum of 15 weeks of student teaching and an associated seminar. NO OTHER COURSES MAY BE TAKEN DURING THE PROFESSIONAL SEMESTER. Students who have completed all or part of their student teaching experiences before enrolling at The University of Memphis, and who desire to receive this institution's recommendation for licensure, should expect to complete a minimum of six semester hours of credit in student teaching at The University of Memphis. Grades in student teaching are reported as S (satisfactory) or U (unsatisfactory). Requirements for enrollment in student teaching are: 1. Application filed during the semester before student teaching. 2. Full admittance to and good standing in the Teacher Education Program one semester before student teaching. 3. Classification as a senior to graduate student. 4. Completion of all prerequisite professional education courses. 5. Grade of C or above in each required professional education and each major course. 6. Recommendation by a faculty committee. The College of 12:03:22 PM]GraduationTo be recommended for graduation and licensure, students must complete the requirements listed below:1. Minimum of 132 semester hours, including at least 45 hours of upper division courses. 2. Overall QPA of no less than 2.50. 3. QPA of no less than 2.50 in all courses taken at The University of Memphis, excluding all credit transferred from other institutions. 4. Grade of C or above in each required professional education course and each course in the major.For Tennessee Teacher Licensure, students must obtain satisfactory scores in the Core Battery and Specialty Area Examinations of the National Teacher Examination (NTE), according to the criteria established by the Tennessee State Board of Education. Any courses taken in excess of those needed to fulfill the requirements of professional education courses and major and minor endorsement areas, are considered to be general electives and are included only in the calculation of the overall QPA. In those areas where students are required to take elective courses, the student, in consultation with and approval of the major advisor, designates where the elective courses are to be applied. B.S.ED. DEGREE (132-137 Hours) B.S.ED. GENERAL EDUCATION (48-62 hours) English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101, 1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): COMM 2381, with a minimum grade of C. Mathematics (3-6 hours): MATH 1181-1182 (6) or one of the following: MATH 1312, 1321 (4), 2000. Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202. Fine Arts Heritage (3 hours): ART 1101, COMM 1851, DANC 1151, MUHL 1101, THEA 1551. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301; PHIL 1101; POLS 1101; UNIV 2850, 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302; PHIL 1102; POLS 1102; UNIV 2860, 3581. NOTE: Early Childhood (PreK-3 Licensure) and Elementary Education (Grades 1-8 Licensure) must select PHIL 1102 and HIST 1301 or CLAS 2481. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one other course from the following: ANTH 3282; GEOG 3401; HIST 2601, 2602, 3863, 3900, 4851, 4881; POLS 4212, 4405; SOCI 3422. Social Science (6-9 hours): One course from list A and one course from list A or list B: 1. (Global Perspective): ANTH 1200; CJUS 2110; ECON 2110; GEOG 1301, 1401; POLS 2301, 2501; PSYC 2201; SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/CSED 2101; UNIV 2304. 2. ANTH 1100, CJUS 1100, ECON 2120, POLS 1100, PSYC 1101, SOCI 1111. NOTE: Early Childhood Education (PreK-3 Licensure) and Elementary Education (Grades 1-8 Licensure) must select the following 9 hours: GEOG 1301 or 1401, and POLS 1100, and SOCI 1111. Special Education Majors must take PSYC 1101, and CSED/SOCI 2101 is recommended as one of the other courses. PSYC 1101 is required of Physical Education majors. Natural Science (8-16 hours-sequence required): BIOL 1051/1052-1061/1062; BIOL 1151/1152-1161/1162; CHEM 1101- 1102; CHEM 1131/1121-1132/1122; GEOG 1001/1011-1002/1022; GEOL 1101-1103; PHYS 1001/1010-1002/1020; PHYS 2003/2510-2004/2520; UNIV 1610-1611. NOTE: Early Childhood Education (PreK-3 Licensure) and Elementary Education (Grades 1-8 Licensure) must take one 2-part sequence with lab selected from: The College of 12:03:22 PM]Biology: BIOL 1151/1152-1161/1162; BIOL 1051/1052-1061/1062 Physical Science: CHEM 1101-1102, 1121/1131-1122/1132; PHYS 1001/1010-1002/1020, 2003/2510-2004/2520 Earth Science: GEOG 1001/1011-1002/1022; GEOL 1101-1103; (Counts as 2 part sequence) Plus two courses -one course from each area not covered in the above sequence: Biology, Earth Science (GEOG or GEOL), Physical Science (CHEM or PHYS). Fitness and Wellness (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002; THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and either 2204 or 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). NOTE: Early Childhood Education (PreK-3 Licensure) must take PHED 1811. PHED 1811 is recommended for Elementary Education (Grades 1-8 Licensure). Physical Education (Licensure) majors must choose either PHED 1713 or a more advanced 1000 level swimming course. Computation Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as computation intensive [C] and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the General Education mathematics requirement. Writing Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as writing intensive [W] and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the General Education English composition requirement. Integrative (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as integrative [I] and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of General Education English composition, oral communication and rhetoric, and mathematics requirements. Computer Literacy (3-4 hours): Included in major requirements (Most may be satisfied by taking ICL 3600 or its equivalent). Consult advisor. MAJORSIn addition to completing the degree requirements listed above for the teacher licensure, B.S.Ed. students must complete requirements for the Human Development and Learning, Physical Education (Physical Education Instruction concentration), or Special Education major. Following the requirements for these majors are the requirements for the non-licensure degree and majors offered through other departments in the college. HUMAN DEVELOPMENT AND LEARNING The Major (75 hours): Successful completion of B.S.Ed. Requirements with a major in Human Development and Learning will qualify a person to apply for licensure in either Early Childhood Education (Grades PreK-3) or Elementary Education (Grades 1-8). A concentration in Schools and Society (non-licensure) is also available to students who are not seeking teacher licensure.1. Major Core (21 hours): ICL 3511, 3600; SPED 2000; CCFA 3001; and one course from each of the following areas: Race and Ethnicity: SOCI 3401, 3422, 4420, or 4442. Family and Culture: ANTH 3511, 4411; HIST 4831, 4863; or SOCI 3831. Gender: SOCI 3432 or 4460. 2. Major Collateral (12 hours): a. Early Childhood Education (Grades PreK-3 Licensure) must take EDPR 3300, 3301; ECED 3555, 3565. b. Elementary Education (Grades 1-8 Licensure) must take EDPR 3121, 3302; PHED 3604 (2); ICL 2601 (1), 3501. c. Schools and Society (Non-Licensure) must take EDPR 3121, 3302; PHED 3604 (2); ICL 2601 (1), 4800. 3. Concentrations (Select one; 33 hours): The College of 12:03:22 PM]a. Early Childhood Education (Grades PreK-3 Licensure) (33 hours): ECED 4510, 4520, 4530, 4540; ELED 4242 (6); ICL 3000, 4800 [l]; a 15-week enhanced student teaching experience in primary and kindergarten or prekindergarten settings (9 hours): ICL 4902, and either ICL 4901 or 4903. b. Elementary Education (Grades 1-8 Licensure) (33 hours): ELED 3251, 3261, 3271, 4242 (6), 4344; ICL 3000, 4800 [I]; a 15-week enhanced student teaching experience in appropriate settings (9 hours): ICL 4904. c. Schools and Society (Non-Licensure) (33 hours): SOCI 3820; ANTH 4051; and 9 hours selected from each of the following groups to total 27 hours: 1. ECED 3555, 3565; EDPR 3100 [C], 3300, 3301; PSYC 3103; CSED 3401. 2. EDPR 4530, 4541 [C]; SWRK 2911; SOCI 3801, 4842; CSED 4104; COUN 4621; ICL 4111. 3. SOCI 3401, 3422, 3432, 3831, 4420, 4442, 4460; ANTH 3511, 4411; HIST 4831, 4863 [W].NOTE: The 9 hours selected from area 3 may not duplicate courses selected to meet the Human Development and Learning major core requirements. 4. Related Liberal Studies (9 hours): EDPR 2111; LEAD 2010; HLTH 3306. 5. Electives: to bring the total for the degree to at least 132 hours. PHYSICAL EDUCATION The Major: (76 hours): Successful completion of B.S.Ed. requirements with a major in Physical Education and a concentration in Physical Education Instruction will qualify a graduate to apply for licensure in Physical Education (K-12). Non- licensure majors should refer to the non-licensure requirements in the next section. a. Major Core (31 hours): PHED 2001, 3703 (4), 3803, 3903, 4204, 4403; BIOL 1751/1752 (4), 1761/1762 (4); one 4- hour natural science elective, and First Aid/CPR certification at graduation. b. Physical Education Instruction Concentration (21 hours): PHED 2002, 2003, 2009, 3307, 3308 (2), 3309 (1), 3604 (2), 3605 (1), 4808 (2), 4809 (1). c. Professional Education (24 hours): SPED 2000; EDPR 2111; LEAD 2010; ICL 3000, 4800, 4909 (9). Professional Seminar required during student teaching semester. d. Electives to bring the total for the degree to at least 132 semester hours. SPECIAL EDUCATION The Major: (82 hours): Successful completion of B.S.Ed. requirements with a major in Special Education will qualify a person to apply for licensure in Special Education, both Modified (K-12) and Comprehensive (K-12). This major is also available to students who are not seeking licensure in which case guided electives will be chosen with advisor approval in lieu of the Professional Semester. *NOTE: SPED 3800, 3801, 3802, and 3803 must be taken simultaneously. a. Major Core (36 hours): SPED 2000, 3201, 3401, 3501, 3601, *3802, *3803, 4900; ELED 3251, 4242 (6); and one of the following: PHED 3308 (2) and PHED 3309 (1); COUN 4621, 4781; REHB 3911; or ELED 4344. b. Professional Education (28 hours): ICL 3000, 4800; SPED *3800, *3801, 4000, 4001; fifteen weeks of student teaching in at least three settings: resource/consultative, comprehensive, and regular classrooms: ICL 4905 (4), 4906 (4), 4904 or 4907 (2). c. Related Liberal Studies (18 hours): SAFE 2102, ICL 3600, EDPR 2111, 3302; LEAD 2010; and one of the following: PSYC 3102, SOCI 3501, or EDPR 3121. d. Electives to bring the total for the degree to at least 132 semester hours. B.S.ED. REQUIREMENTS (NON-LICENSURE) Non-licensure B.S.Ed. programs include the major in Consumer Science and Education which is offered through the Department of Consumer Science and Education and the following majors offered through the Department of Human Movement Sciences and Education: Physical Education and Recreation and Park Administration. Students may also complete the non-licensure major in the Department of Instruction and Curriculum Leadership: Human Development and Learning with a concentration in The College of 12:03:22 PM]Schools and Society. Degree requirements for these majors include the following: GraduationIn addition to specific course requirements listed below, students must complete the following: 1. Minimum of 132 semester hours of which at least 45 hours must be upper division and at least 45-51 hours in liberal content courses. 2. Overall QPA of no less than 2.0. 3. QPA of no less than 2.0 in all credits earned at The University of Memphis excluding all credit transferred from other institutions.4. QPA of no less than 2.25 in all courses required for fulfilling the completion of the major. NOTE: Any courses taken in excess of those needed to fulfill the requirements of the major are considered to be general electives and are included only in the calculation of the overall QPA. In those areas where students are required to take elective courses, the student in consultation with and approval of the major advisor, designates where the elective courses are to be applied. B.S.ED. DEGREE (132-137 Hours) B.S.ED. GENERAL EDUCATION (48-55 hours) English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101, 1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): COMM 2381, with a minimum grade of C. Mathematics (3-6 hours): MATH 1181-1182 (6) or one of the following: MATH 1312, 1321 (4), 2000. Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202. Fine Arts Heritage (3 hours): ART 1101, COMM 1851, DANC 1151, MUHL 1101, THEA 1551. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301; PHIL 1101; POLS 1101; UNIV 2850, 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302; PHIL 1102; POLS 1102; UNIV 2860, 3581. NOTE: Consumer Science and Education majors with a Dietetics concentration must take POLS 1102. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one other course from the following: ANTH 3282; GEOG 3401; HIST 2601, 2602, 3863, 3900, 4851, 4881; POLS 4212, 4405; SOCI 3422. Social Science (6-9 hours): One course from list A and one course from list A or list B: A. (Global Perspective): ANTH 1200; CJUS 2110; ECON 2110; GEOG 1301, 1401; POLS 2301, 2501; PSYC 2201; SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/CSED 2101; UNIV 2304. NOTE: Consumer Science and Education majors must take CSED/SOCI 2101. ECON 2110 required of Recreation and Park Administration majors with a concentration in Recreation Program Administration.B. ANTH 1100, CJUS 1100, ECON 2120, POLS 1100, PSYC 1101, SOCI 1111. NOTE: Consumer Science and Education majors with a Food Systems Management or Merchandising concentration take ECON 2120. Students with a Dietetics concentration or a major in Physical Education with a concentration in Physical Education Instruction take PSYC 1101. Natural Science (8 hours-sequence required): BIOL 1051/1052-1061/1062; BIOL 1151/1152-1161/1162; CHEM 1101-1102; CHEM 1131/1121-1132/1122; GEOG 1001/1011-1002/1022; GEOL 1101-1103; PHYS 1001/1010-1002/1020; PHYS 2003/2510-2004/2520; UNIV 1610-1611. NOTE: Consumer Science and Education majors with a Food Systems Management concentration take CHEM 1101-1102; with a Dietetics concentration, take CHEM 1131/1121-1132/1122. Fitness and Wellness (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002; THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and either 2204 or 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121) NOTE: Physical Education Instruction concentration students must choose either PHED 1713 or more advanced 1000 level swimming course. The College of 12:03:22 PM]Computation Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as computation intensive [C] and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the General Education mathematics requirement. Writing Intensive (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as writing intensive [W] and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of the General Education English composition requirement. Integrative (3 hours): At least one upper division course designated as integrative [I] and approved by advisor. Prerequisite: Satisfactory completion of General Education English composition, oral communication and rhetoric, and mathematics requirements. Computer Literacy (3-4 hours): Included in major requirements. Consult advisor. MAJOR: Completion of one of the majors described below. ELECTIVES: To bring the total to at least 132 semester hours. MAJORSThe following majors are offered through the Department of Consumer Science and Education. In instances where a major requirement duplicates a course selected to fulfill General Education requirements, the number of elective hours will be increased. CONSUMER SCIENCE AND EDUCATION The Major (65-84 hours): Core (17 hours): CSED 1101, 2104, 2202, 3302 (2) (Same as EDPR 3302), 4106 [W, I], 4300; and one of the following concentrations. Students in all concentrations must complete the application for practicum or internships by mid-term of the semester before enrollment for the internships. Students may obtain the form from the major advisor.DIETETICS (67 hours): CSED 2302, 3602, 4002, 4102, 4302, 4502, 4602, 4612, 4712, 4802; CHEM 3301 (1), 3302 (1), 3311, 3312, 4511, 4512; BIOL 1751/1752 (4), 1761/1762 (4), 3500 (5); ACCT 2010; MATH 1213 (4); EDPR 4541 [C]. FOOD SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT (48 hours): CSED 2302, 3602, 4302, 4312, 4412, 4502, 4702, 4722; ACCT 2010; ISDS 2710 or EDPR 4541 [C]; ISDS 2750; MGMT 3110, 4420; MKTG 3010, 3410; FIR 3130. HOME ECONOMICS INSTRUCTION (48-56 hours): CSED 1105, 2302, 3204, 3401, 4405; 15 hours chosen in consultation with advisor from the following courses: CSED 2004, 2005, 3602, 4204, 4213, 4217, 4304, 4405, 4412, 4602; in consultation with advisor, 18 hours chosen in the fields of marketing, merchandising, journalism, or in occupational concentration area. Students seeking admission to graduate teacher preparation program take these additional 8 hours: EDPR 2111, ICL 3000, 4715 (2). MERCHANDISING (54-57 hours): Core (15 hours): CSED 2106, 3206 [C], 4600 (6); ICL 3600; and select a or b below. a. Fashion (39 hours): CSED 1105, 2005, 4405, 4705 (6); Business Administration Core (24 hours): ACCT 2010; 1ECON 2120; MKTG 3010; 6 hours from MKTG 3012, 3610, 4080; and any 29 hours of marketing courses approved by the department chair. b. Home Furnishings (42 hours): CSED 2004, 3204, 4204, 4304, 4314, 4405, 4804 (6); Business Administration Core (18 hours): ACCT 2010; 1ECON 2120; MKTG 3010, and 29 hours in MKTG selected in consultation with advisor. 1Also a General Education option. 2If the student wishes a minor in marketing, it is the student's responsibility to contact the chairman of the Marketing Department in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics before selecting the courses.NOTE: All merchandising students must complete major subject area courses before the professional semester required in the merchandising concentrations. A cooperative relationship exists with the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City, whereby Consumer Science and Education-Merchandising majors may enroll for one semester of study in New York with the semester hours earned being transferred toward graduation at The University of Memphis. The following majors are offered through the Department of Human Movement Sciences and Education. In instances where a major requirement duplicates a course selected to fulfill General The College of 12:03:22 PM]Education requirements, the number of elective hours will be increased. PHYSICAL EDUCATION (Program under revision. See department chair.) The Major (52-76 hours): Core (31 hours): PHED 2001, 3703 (4), 3803, 3903 [W], 4204 [C], 4403; First Aid/CPR certification at graduation; BIOL 1751/1752 (4), 1761/1762 (4) and one 4-hour natural science elective; plus one of the concentrations below and electives to bring the total for the degree to at least 132 semester hours. PHYSICAL EDUCATION INSTRUCTION (21 hours): PHED 2002, 2003, 2009, 3307, 3308 (2), 3309 (1), 3604 (2), 3605 (1), 4808 (2), 4809 (1). FITNESS MANAGEMENT (43 hours): PHED 1003 (2), 1004 (2), 1301 (2), 1712 or 1713 or 1722 (2), 3503, 3603, 4605 (9); MGMT 1010; CSED 2202; SAFE 3302, 3502; COUN 4611; HPER 4999 [I]; and one of the following: PHED 1501, 1502, 1503, 1521, 1522, 1523, 1541. SPORTS LEADERSHIP (45 hours): RECR 3105 [W], 4105; PHED 3604 (2), 3605 (1), 4305 (1), 4605 (6); COUN 4621; 26 hours selected in consultation with advisor. The Minors: Physical Education (23-24 hours): PHED 2001, 2002, 2003, 2009, 3703 (4) or 4403, 3903 [W], 4808 (2), 4809 (1); and one of the following: 2103 (2), 2403 (2), 2503 (2). Coaching (19-20 hours): PHED 2002 or 2003, 2103 (2), 2403 (2), 2503 (2), 3307, 3703 (4) or 4403, 4605 (1); SAFE 3502. RECREATION AND PARK ADMINISTRATION (Program under revision. See department chair.) The Major (54-59 hours): Core (30 hours): RECR 2105, 3105 [W], 3205, 3305, 3605, 3905, 4105, 4405, 4505 [C]; SAFE 2102; plus one of the following concentrations and electives to bring the total for the degree to at least 132 semester hours. THERAPEUTIC RECREATION (29 hours): RECR 3102, 3202, 4102, 4605; PHED 3308 (2), 3309 (1), 4403; COUN 3901; BIOL 1751/1752 (4), 1761/1762 (4). OUTDOOR RECREATION (27 hours): RECR 3103, 3203, 4103, 4203 (2), 4605 (9); PHED 1332 (2) or 1333 (2) or 1334 (2); 1782 (2) or 1783 (2); HIST 4861. RECREATION PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION (24 hours) RECR 3104, 3204, 4104, 4605 (9); MGMT 3110; MKTG 3010 or 3011. NOTE: Take ECON 2110 to meet General Education Social Science requirement. The Minor: Recreation (24-32 hours): RECR 2105, 3105, 3305, 4105, 4405; and one of the following areas: a. Therapeutic Recreation: RECR 3102, 3202, 4102; BIOL 1751/1752 (4), 1761/1762 (4). b. Outdoor Recreation: RECR 3103, 3203, 4103. c. Recreation Program Administration: RECR 3104, 3204, 4104. The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]THE HERFF COLLEGE OF ENGINEERINGRICHARD C. WARDER, JR., Ph.D., Dean Room 201-D, Engineering Building PURPOSESThe college's function is to serve the educational and research needs of the industrial community, the metropolitan area, the state, and the nation. It accomplishes this function by providing: (1) undergraduate professional education in the principal fields of engineering, (2) undergraduate education in both technical and educational technology, (3) graduate education in all areas, (4) a program of continuing education for the engineering and technological practitioners of the area, (5) assistance in the solution of industrial problems through utilization of physical facilities and the professional talents of faculty and students, (6) a forum for the interchange of ideas and experiences among members of the industrial community through conferences, institutes and short courses and (7) an increase in the accumulation of knowledge in special fields of interest by a continuing program of study and research. ORGANIZATIONThe Herff College of Engineering is organized into the Departments of Biomedical, Civil, Electrical, Mechanical Engineering and Engineering Technology. Except for biomedical engineering, each offers a choice of specialized four-year programs leading to baccalaureate degrees. Graduate master's or doctoral programs are offered in all of the engineering disciplines above. Students may also pursue the master's degree in Industrial and Systems Engineering and in Technical Education. AdvisingHigh school students, in planning for careers in one of the fields of engineering, should take advantage of preparatory courses. Since engineering is the application of mathematics and physical sciences to imaginative and useful systems, those courses should be emphasized in high school preparation. Courses are available at the university for those not fully prepared. Early enrollment in the summer terms offers excellent opportunity to remove any deficiencies that may exist. Freshman students who choose to study in The Herff College of Engineering will be advised by an Engineering College counselor until a major has been selected; then they will be advised by a member of their major department. Internal changes of a student's major may be made efficiently without loss of academic credit. Many students have found that the study of engineering is an excellent preparation for medical school. Those students electing this option should consult the advisor for the College of Engineering. Those courses in biology and chemistry which are necessary for the pre-med option may be used as electives in the engineering curricula. However, the student is advised to secure permission to do so before enrolling for the courses. The student should also see the university pre-professional advisor in the dean's office in the college of Arts and Sciences. ACADEMIC PROGRAMS DepartmentMajorClick below for Major Requirements. Click on ConcentrationDegree Offered The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]Tiger Paw for course Descriptions Within Major Click below for Degree Requirements CivilEngineeringCivil Engineering* 1. Construction Engineering2. Environmental Engineering3. Foundation Engineering4. Structural Engineering5. Transportation EngineeringBachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (B.S.C.E.) Electrical EngineeringElectrical Engineering* 1. Computer Science2. Electrophysics3. Systems and SignalsBachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering (B.S.E.E.) Mechanical EngineeringMechanical Engineering* 1. Mechanical Systems & Design2. Energy Systems3. Biomedical SystemsBachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering (B.S.M.E.)Engineering TechnologyArchitectural Technology** NONEBachelor of Science in Engineering Technology (B.S.E.T.)Computer Engineering Technology**Electronics Engineering Technology**Manufacturing Engineering Technology***Note: Accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). **Note: Accredited by the Technology Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). DEGREE REQUIREMENTS Degrees Offered The Herff College of Engineering offers work leading to the following degrees: Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering, Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering, and Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology. The college also offers masters' degrees in these areas as well as a Ph.D. degree in Engineering. For more information about graduate programs, refer to the Graduate School Catalog. The required curriculum, including elective specialties in each of the various undergraduate programs, is described in detail in the following pages. A minimum quality point average of 2.0 is required for graduation. A maximum of 2 semester hours of physical activity course credit may be applied to the degree. Students who desire to take courses offered by other institutions and receive transfer credit at The University of Memphis, must secure the permission of the dean's office before enrolling in the courses. The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]University residence requirements are explained in detail in the Graduation from the University section. A student in the Herff College of Engineering must earn the 33 hours required by the university for residency as upper division hours in courses in the Herff College of Engineering. The university computer literacy requirement is met by a combination of introductory and specialized courses, complemented by advanced classroom assignments, in each major program of the College of Engineering. Specific requirements may be found in the following degree descriptions. Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering The civil engineering program is built upon a foundation of mathematics, physical sciences, and mechanics with supporting courses in the humanities and social studies. The curriculum affords a detailed study of the fundamental principles that constitute the professional practice of civil engineering. Areas of specialization include environmental, structural, foundation, transportation, water resources, and construction engineering. Career opportunities include technical or administrative positions in the areas of planning, design, construction, and maintenance of all types of public and private civil engineering projects. GRADUATION: To qualify for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering, a student must satisfy general university and college requirements, have a grade of "C" or higher in all civil engineering courses, and complete the course sequence outlined below. For credits transferred from another institution, only those civil engineering course grades of "C" or higher may be applied toward the degree. COURSE ENROLLMENT: The degree program in civil engineering includes a series of engineering science and professional courses taught at the upper division level. These courses are based on a background of communications, physical science, mathematics, and engineering science courses required during the freshman and sophomore years. All of the courses required during the freshman and sophomore years are prerequisites to junior standing in the Civil Engineering Department. Students shall not enroll in any upper division courses in civil engineering before the semester in which they complete all of the lower division requirements. Exceptions to this policy can be made only by the department chair acting upon the recommendation of the student's advisor. GENERAL EDUCATION AND B.S.C.E. REQUIREMENTS: (62-72 hours) English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101-1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): ENGL 3603. Mathematics (15-19 hours) including 15 hours in the following courses: MATH 1321(4), 2321(4), 2322 (4), and 3391. NOTE:Students who have not had MATH 1213 or its equivalent must take it before enrolling in MATH 1321. Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202. Fine Arts Heritage (3 hours): ART 1101, COMM 1851, DANC 1151, MUHL 1101, or THEA 1551. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 4260, PHIL 3411, PHIL 3512, POLS 3402, UNIV 2860, 3581. NOTE:Courses need to be selected that provide both breadth and depth and not be limited to a selection of unrelated introductory courses. In order to meet this requirement, the selection of these courses must be approved by the department chair or the chair's designee. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one other course from the following: ANTH 3282, GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881, POLS 4212, POLS 4405, SOCI 3422. NOTE: Students who completed one unit of American History in high school and who complete the B.S.C.E. degree requirements are exempt from this requirement. Social Science (6 hours): ECON 2110 and one of the following: ANTH 1100, ANTH 1200, CJUS 1100, CJUS 2110, GEOG 1301, GEOG 1401, POLS 1100, POLS 2301, POLS 2501, PSYC 1101, PSYC 2201, SOCI 1111, SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/CSED 2101, UNIV 2304.Natural Science (16 hours): CHEM 1121, 1131; PHYS 2003, 2004, 2510, 2520 and one of the following: CHEM 1122 and 1132, The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]BIOL 1151 and 1152, or GEOL 1101. Fitness and Wellness: (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002; THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). Collateral Courses: ELEC 2283 or MECH 3311; MECH 2308, 2332(9). (12) The following courses and hours are included in the description of the major found below: Computation Intensive [C]: CIVL 3121. Writing Intensive [W]: CIVL 4199. Integrative [I]: CIVL 4199. Computer Literacy: CIVL 1112 and 2107. The Major: See description below. (62) TOTAL HOURS (133-143) CIVIL ENGINEERING The Major: 62 semester hours including CIVL 1101, 1112, 2107, 2131, 3113, 3121 [C], 3131, 3137(2), 3141, 4151, 3161, 3180, 3182 (1), 3322, 3325 (1), 4111, 4193 (1), 4199 [W, I]; plus 15 hours of civil engineering electives approved by an advisor and selected as follows: 6 hours from group 1 electives CIVL 3101, 3181, 4112, 4122, 4143, 4142, 4171, 4172, 4173, and an approved upper-division civil, electrical, or mechanical engineering course; 9 hours from group 2 electives CIVL 4131, 4135, 4136, 4144, 4152, 4162, 4163, 4164, 4180, 4190, 4191, and 4900-10. A student may select courses from the following concentrations to satisfy civil engineering elective requirements. If the student declares a concentration, a minimum of 9 hours from that concentration area is required. a. Environmental Engineering: CIVL 4143, 4144, 4180, 4191 b. Foundation Engineering: CIVL 3136, 4152, 4171, 4191 c. Structural Engineering: CIVL 4131, 4136, 4152, 4191, 4122 d. Transportation Engineering: CIVL 4162, 4163, 4164, 4191 e. Construction Engineering: CIVIL 4164, 4171, 4172, 4173, 4191 TYPICAL SEQUENCE FRESHMAN YEAR ENGL 1101 3 ENGL 1102 3 MATH 1321 4 MATH 2321 4 CIVL 1101 3 CIVL 1112 3 Physical Activity 2 PHYS 2003/2510 4 CHEM 1121/1131 4 Physical Science1 4 16 18 SOPHOMORE YEAR ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 MECH 2308 3 MATH 2322 4 HPER 1100 2 PHYS 2004/2520 4 ELEC or MECH2 3 CIVL 2131 3 CIVL 2107 3 ECON 2110 3 MECH 2332 3 Gen. Ed. (Social Science) 3 17 17 JUNIOR YEAR MATH 3391 3 CIVL 3131 3 CIVL 3322/3325 4 CIVL 3161 3 CIVL 3180/3182 4 CIVL 3113 3 CIVL 3121 [C] 3 CIVL 3141 3 Gen. Ed. (Hist/Phil: ENGL 3603 3 pre-1500)3 3 CIVL 3137 2 17 17 SENIOR YEAR CIVL Elective (Grp 1)4 3 CIVL 4111 3 The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]CIVL 4151 3 CIVL 4199 [W, I] 3 CIVL Elective (Grp 1)4 3 CIVL Elective (Grp 2)4 3 CIVL Elective (Grp 2)4 3 CIVL Elective (Grp 2)4 3 Gen. Ed. (Fine Arts) 3 Gen. Ed. (Hist/Phil: post-1500)3 3 CIVL 4193 1 15 16 1Select from CHEM 1122/1132, BIOL 1151/1152, and GEOL 1101 2Select from ELEC 2283 and MECH 3311 3In addition to meeting the university General Education requirements, this course must be used to fulfill part of the engineering humanities and social sciences requirement. The combination must include a sequence of courses that reflects both breadth and depth in a particular area. Chair's approval required. 4Upper division course in civil engineering; advisor's approval required. Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Students enrolled in electrical engineering are offered a curriculum designed to provide a thorough background and understanding of the theoretical and physical principles of electric and magnetic phenomena. The concepts and techniques of mathematics and physics are applied to a wide variety of applications in electrical engineering. Laboratory facilities are available for a wide variety of instructional and research activities. Significant laboratory activity is required in the curriculum. Career opportunities include positions in development and design, research, sales, management, manufacturing, and construction. Some of the technical areas of opportunity are related to computer applications, communications systems, power generation and distribution systems, microwave and antenna systems, automatic control systems, and general instrumentation. An undergraduate student, with the approval of the department chairman, may select some electives that satisfy the course entrance requirements for medical school. The Department of Electrical Engineering offers a Master of Science degree for electrical engineers who desire advanced study in electro-optical systems, automatic control systems, engineering computer systems, and communications and propagation systems. The department also offers a concentration in Electrical Engineering for students pursuing the interdepartmental Doctor of Philosophy degree. GRADUATION: The minimum requirements for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering are given below. The student must satisfy general university and college requirements. The student must obtain a grade of C or better in ELEC 1202, 1207, 2201, 2203, 2222; MATH 1321, 2321, 2322, 3391; CIVL 2131; MECH 2322; CHEM 1121, 1131; PHYS 2003, 2004, 2510, 2520 or any equivalents to these courses used to satisfy degree requirements. In addition, an average grade of C must be maintained in all undergraduate electrical engineering course work. No transfer credit with a grade less than C may be used to satisfy a requirement for the Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering. COURSE ENROLLMENT: Neither admission by The University of Memphis nor completion of the minimum requirements guarantees admission to any specific electrical engineering course. Resource limitations may dictate class enrollment selection based on ranking by academic proficiency with possible allowances for graduating seniors. Transfer students should seek advice from the Electrical Engineering Department prior to seeking university admission. MINORS: Students satisfying the requirements for the Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering may also satisfy requirements for a minor offered by a department in one of the other colleges. Requirements for minors are specified by the appropriate college and department. Students should submit application for the minor to the appropriate department chair. Candidates for graduation who satisfy requirements for a minor should file the approved application with the intent-to-graduate cards. GENERAL EDUCATION AND B.S.E.E. REQUIREMENTS: (65-75 hours) The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101-1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): ENGL 3603. Mathematics (18-22 hours) including 18 hours in the following courses: MATH 1321, 2321, 2322, 3391, and one upper division MATH course selected with advisor's approval. NOTE: Students who have not had MATH 1213 or its equivalent must take it before enrolling in MATH 1321. Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202. Fine Arts Heritage (3 hours): ART 1101, COMM 1851, DANC 1151, MUHL 1101, or THEA 1551. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 4260, PHIL 3411, PHIL 3512, POLS 3402, UNIV 2860, 3581. NOTE:Courses need to be selected that provide both breadth and depth and not be limited to a selection of unrelated introductory courses. In order to meet this requirement, the selection of these courses must be approved by the department chair or the chair's designee. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one other course from the following: ANTH 3282 GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881, POLS 4212, POLS 4405, SOCI 3422. NOTE: Students who completed one unit of American History in high school and who complete the B.S.E.E. degree requirements are exempt from this requirement. Social Science (6 hours): ECON 2110 and one of the following: ANTH 1100, ANTH 1200, CJUS 1100, CJUS 2110, ECON 2120, GEOG 1301, GEOG 1401, POLS 1100, POLS 2301, POLS 2501, PSYC 1101, PSYC 2201, SOCI 1111, SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/CSED 2101, UNIV 2304. Natural Science (16 hours): CHEM 1121, CHEM 1131; PHYS 2003/2510 and PHYS 2004/2520, and one of the following: BIOL 1151/1152, 1161/1162, 1751/1752, CHEM 1122/1132, or GEOL 1101. Fitness and Wellness: (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002; THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). Collateral Courses: CIVL 2131; MECH 2332, 3310. (9) The following courses and hours are included in the description of the major found below: Computation Intensive: ELEC 3240 or 4201. Writing Intensive: ELEC 4280 or 4993. Integrative: ELEC 4280 or 4993. Computer Literacy: ELEC 1202 and 1207. The Major: See description below. (63) TOTAL HOURS (137-147) ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING The Major: 63 hours including ELEC 1202, 1207, 2201, 2203 (1), 2222 (4), 3201 (4), 3202, 3211, 3212 (4), 3213 (1), 3221, 3240 [C], 4201 [C], 4203 (1), 4231, 4280 [I,W]; 12 hours of ELEC electives approved by advisor; 6 hours of technical electives approved by advisor. Students may use elective hours to broaden their base of knowledge or for one of the concentrations below. A minimum of 9 semester hours is required for a concentration. The concentrations are the following: a. Computer Science: ELEC 3220, 4222, 4270 (4),4271, 4272, 4274, 4720, and 4730. b. Electrophysics: ELEC 4212 (4), 4240, 4241, 4242, and 4243. c. Systems and Signals: ELEC 4202, 4204, 4221 (4), 4223, 4230, 4232, 4236, 4251, 4252, 4253 (1), and 4261. NOTE: Projects I or II, ELEC 4991 or 4992 can be taken for up to 6 semester hours credit in any of the areas of concentration. TYPICAL SEQUENCE The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]FRESHMAN YEAR ENGL 1101 3 ENGL 1102 3 MATH 1321 4 MATH 2321 4 ELEC 1202 3 ELEC 1207 3 CHEM 1121, 1131 4 PHYS 2003/2510 4 HPER 1100 2 Gen. Ed. (Natural Science) 4 16 18 SOPHOMORE YEAR ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 Gen. Ed. (Fine Arts) 3 MATH 2322 4 MATH 3391 3 PHYS 2004/2520 4 ELEC 2201, 2203 4 CIVL 2131 3 MECH 2332 3 ELEC 2222 4 ECON 2110 3 Physical Activity 2 18 18 JUNIOR YEAR ELEC 3201 4 ELEC 3202 3 ELEC 3211, 3213 4 ELEC 3212 4 ELEC 3221 3 MECH 3310 3 5Math Elective 3 ELEC 3240 [C] 3 1Gen. Ed. (Hist/Phil: 1Gen. Ed. (Hist/Phil: pre-1500) 3 post-1500) 3 17 16 SENIOR YEAR 4ELEC 4231 3 ELEC 4280 [W,I] 3 ELEC 4201 [C], 4203 4 3ELEC Electives 8 3ELEC Elective 4 2Technical Elective 6 ENGL 3603 3 1Gen. Ed. (Social Sci.) 3 17 17 1In addition to meeting the university General Education requirements, this course must be used to fulfill part of the engineering humanities and social sciences requirement. The combination must include a sequence of courses that reflects both breadth and depth in a particular area. Chair's or designee's approval required. 2Upper division courses in engineering, mathematics, physics. Approval of chair required. 3Upper division courses in electrical engineering. Courses selected must include sufficient design content. Advisor's approval required.4Substitution of ELEC 4230 or 4232 may be made with advisor's approval. 5Upper division courses in mathematics. Approval of chair required. Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering Mechanical engineering is a broad field, and consequently students are offered a balanced curriculum designed to provide a strong foundation in mathematics, physical sciences and the engineering sciences. Moreover, they study humanities and social sciences to understand more fully the engineer's relationship and responsibilities to society. Finally, mechanical engineers cultivate, through advanced courses in engineering design and synthesis, the ability to apply this knowledge to the analysis and solution of significant engineering problems. Because of the diverse nature of this work, the mechanical engineer must have a basic knowledge of chemistry, physics, mathematics and the classical disciplines of mechanical engineering, thermal sciences, mechanical sciences, materials sciences and modern techniques of engineering analysis, design and optimization. This diverse background uniquely equips the mechanical engineer to work on a variety of challenging problems, including land and marine vehicles, aircraft and spacecraft, air conditioning systems, power plants, machines and a host of other devices. GRADUATION: To qualify for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering, the student must satisfy the following general university and college requirements, and obtain a C or better in all engineering, mathematics, physics, and chemistry courses used toward graduation. GENERAL EDUCATION AND B.S.M.E. REQUIREMENTS: (62-72 hours) The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101-1102, with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): ENGL 3603. Mathematics (15-19 hours) including 15 hours in the following courses: MATH 1321, 2321, 2322, and 3391. NOTE: Students who have not had MATH 1213 or its equivalent must take it before enrolling in MATH 1321. Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202. Fine Arts Heritage (3 hours): ART 1101, COMM 1851, DANC 1151, MUHL 1101, or THEA 1551. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-l500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 4260, PHIL 3411, PHIL 3512, POLS 3402, UNIV 2860, 3581. NOTE:Courses need to be selected that provide both breadth and depth and not be limited to a selection of unrelated introductory courses. To meet this requirement, the selection of these courses must be approved by the department chair or the chair's designee. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one other course from the following: ANTH 3282, GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881, POLS 4212, POLS 4405, SOCI 3422. NOTE: Students who completed one unit of American History in high school and who complete the B.S.M.E. degree requirements are exempt from this requirement. Social Science (6 hours): ECON 2110 and one of the following: ANTH 1100, ANTH 1200, CJUS 1100, CJUS 2110, ECON 2120, GEOG 1301, GEOG 1401, POLS 1100, POLS 2301, POLS 2501, PSYC 1101, PSYC 2201, SOCI 1111, SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/ CSED 2101, UNIV 2304. Natural Science (16 hours): CHEM 1121, 1131, 1122, 1132, and PHYS 2003, 2510, 2004, 2520. Fitness and Wellness: (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002; THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). Collateral Courses: CIVL 2131, 4111; ELEC 2281 (1), 2283. (10) The following courses and hours are included in the description of the major found below: Computation Intensive: MECH 3341. Writing Intensive: MECH 4312. Integrative: MECH 4314 (4). Computer Literacy: MECH 1307 and 3341. The Major: See description below. (66-67) TOTAL HOURS (138-148) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING The Major: 66-67 hours including MECH 1307, 3312, 3320, 3321, 3322, 3323, 3325 (1), 3331, 3335 (1), 3341 [C], 4300 (1), 4311, 4312 [W], 4314 [I] (4), 4322, 4323 (4), 4335, (1), 4344; 9-10 hours of electives approved by the advisor. If the student declares a concentration, a minimum of ten semester hours is required in the designated concentration (including the relevant four-hour design course).a. Mechanical Systems and Design: MECH 4323 (4) and at least two courses approved by an advisor from the following: MECH 4320, 4324, 4325, 4330, 4345, 4346, 4360, 4371, 4391. b. Energy Systems: MECH 4314 (4) and at least two courses approved by an advisor from the following: MECH 4309, 4313, 4315, 4331, 4333, 4337, 4369, 4391. c. Biomedical Systems: MECH 4350 (4), 4326 and 4391. TYPICAL SEQUENCE The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]FRESHMAN YEAR ENGL 1101 3 ENGL 1102 3 MATH 1321 4 MATH 2321 4 MECH 1307 3 PHYS 2003/2510 4 CHEM 1121, 1131 4 CHEM 1122,1132 4 HPER 1100 2 Gen. Ed. (Social Science) 3 16 18 SOPHOMORE YEAR ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 Gen. Ed. (Fine Arts) 3 MATH 2322 4 MATH 3391 3 PHYS 2004/2520 4 MECH 2308 3 CIVL 2131 3 MECH 2332 3 MECH 3320 3 MECH 3341 [C] 3 MECH 3311 3 17 18 JUNIOR YEAR MECH 3312 3 MECH 3323 3 MECH 3321 3 MECH 4311 3 MECH 3322 3 MECH 4335 1 MECH 3325 1 ELEC 2283 3 MECH 3331 3 ELEC 2281 1 MECH 3335 1 CIVL 4111 3 ENGL 3603 3 Gen. Ed. (Hist/Phil: pre-1500) 3 17 17 SENIOR YEAR MECH 4314 [I] 4 MECH 4300 1 MECH 4344 3 MECH 4323 4 MECH 4322 3 MECH 4312 [W] 3 MECH Elective 3 3Technical Elective 3 2Physical Activity 2 2MECH Elective 3 ECON 2110 3 1Gen. Ed. (Hist/Phil: post-1500) 3 18 17 1In addition to meeting the university General Education requirements, this course must be used to fulfill part of the engineering humanities and social sciences requirement. The combination must include a sequence of courses that reflects both breadth and depth in a particular area. Approval of department chair or designee is required. 2An upper division course in Mechanical Engineering. Advisor's approval required. 3An upper division course in engineering, mathematics, physics, or chemistry. Advisor's approval required. Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology Architectural Technology Computer Engineering Technology Electronics Engineering Technology Manufacturing Engineering Technology Engineering Technology is that part of the technological field requiring the application of scientific and engineering knowledge and methods combined with technical skills in support of engineering activities. The Department of Engineering Technology offers four majors leading to the degree Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology. These majors are Architectural Technology, Computer Engineering Technology, Electronics Engineering Technology, and Manufacturing Engineering Technology. In addition to meeting general university requirements, students must attain a grade of C or better in designated engineering technology courses within each major. GENERAL EDUCATION AND B.S.E.T. REQUIREMENTS: (60 hours) English Composition (9 hours): ENGL 1101-1102, with a minimum grade of C, and ENGL 3601. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): COMM 2381. Mathematics (8 hours): MATH 1213 and 1321. The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202. Fine Arts Heritage (3 hours): ART 1101, COMM 1851, DANC 1151, MUHL 1101, or THEA 1551. NOTE: Architectural Technology majors must take ART 1101. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302, PHIL 1102, POLS 1102, UNIV 2860, 3581. NOTE: Architectural Technology majors must take HIST 1301, PHIL 1102. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one other course from the following: ANTH 3282, GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881, POLS 4212, POLS 4405, SOCI 3422. NOTE: Architectural, Computer Engineering, and Manufacturing Engineering Technology majors must take HIST 2601, 2602. Social Science (6 hours): One course from list A and one from A or B: NOTE: Architectural Technology majors must take ANTH 1200, SOCI 1111. A. (Global Perspective): ANTH 1200, CJUS 2110, ECON 2110, GEOG 1301, GEOG 1401, POLS 2301, POLS 2501, PSYC 2201, SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/ CSED 2101, UNIV 2304. B. ANTH 1100, CJUS 1100, ECON 2120, POLS 1100, PSYC 1101, SOCI 1111. Natural Science (12 hours-Sequence required): PHYS 2001, 2110, 2002, 2120, and CHEM 1101. Fitness and Wellness (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002; THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). Engineering Technology Core: TECH 1411 (1), 1521, 3044 (4), 4944. (11) The following courses and hours are included in the description of the major found below: Computation Intensive [C]: TECH 3044 (4) or 4462. Writing Intensive [W]: TECH 4944. Integrative [I]: TECH 4235 (4) or 4944. Computer Literacy: TECH 1010 or 1210; and TECH 2561 or 3233 (4) or 3281 (4) or 3562 or 4472. The Major: Select one of the following majors: Architectural Technology (63), Computer Engineering Technology (67), Electronics Engineering Technology (68-70), Manufacturing Engineering Technology (64). See descriptions below. (63-70) TOTAL HOURS (134-141) ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGY Architectural Technology is that branch of Engineering Technology that concerns itself with those phases of architectural and engineering design as related to buildings. The purpose of the program is to teach design principles and drafting techniques in preparation for tasks that are now required of the architect and the engineer. The course offerings are engineering oriented with emphasis on architectural practices and principles.NOTE: Substitutions must be approved by the program coordinator. The Major: 63 hours including TECH 1010, 1555, 1561, 2451, 2555 (4), 2556, 2561, 3401, 3408(4), 3471, 3472, 3520 (4), 3531, 3562, 3691, 4515 (4), 4535, 4600 (4), 4615 (4). TYPICAL SEQUENCE FRESHMAN YEAR ENGL 1101 3 ENGL 1102 3 TECH 1010 3 ART 1101 3 MATH 1213 4 MATH 1321 4 The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]TECH 1411 1 TECH 1561 3 TECH 1521 3 TECH 2451 3 TECH 1555 3 HPER 1100 2 Physical Activity 2 19 18 SOPHOMORE YEAR ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 COMM 2381 3 PHYS 2001/2110 4 PHYS 2002/2120 4 TECH 2555 4 TECH 2561 3 TECH 3044 [C] 4 TECH 2556 3 TECH 3401 3 TECH 3408 4 18 17 JUNIOR YEAR HIST 2601 3 HIST 2602 3 TECH 3471 [C] 3 ENGL 3601 3 TECH 3520 4 TECH 3472 3 TECH 3531 3 TECH 3691 3 TECH 3562 3 TECH 4515 4 16 16 SENIOR YEAR SOCI 1111 3 PHIL 1102 3 CHEM 1101 4 HIST 1301 3 TECH 4535 3 ANTH 1200 3 TECH 4600 4 TECH 4944 [W,I] 3 TECH 4615 4 TECH ELEC 3 18 15 COMPUTER ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY This area of study is designed to prepare for positions that require a knowledge of computer architecture and programming and the application of computers in various industries. The Major: 67 hours including TECH 1010, 1210, 1811, 2230 (4), 2251 (4), 2261 (4), 2821, 2831, 3232, 3233 (4), 3251 (4), 3281 (4), 4234 (4), 4235 (4), 4261 (4), 4272 (4), 4381, 4462 [C], 4474. TYPICAL SEQUENCE FRESHMAN YEAR ENGL 1001 3 ENGL 1102 3 TECH 1010 3 CHEM 1101 4 HPER 1100 2 MATH 1321 4 MATH 1213 4 *Physical Activity 2 TECH 1411 1 TECH 1210 3 TECH 1521 3 TECH 1811 3 16 19 SOPHOMORE YEAR ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 PHYS 2002/2120 4 PHYS 2001/2110 4 COMM 2381 3 TECH 2251 4 TECH 2230 4 TECH 2821 3 TECH 2261 4 TECH 3044 [C] 4 TECH 2831 3 18 18 JUNIOR YEAR ENGL 3601 3 *General Education 3 *General Education 3 *General Education 3 *General Education 3 HIST 2602 3 HIST 2601 3 TECH 3233 4 TECH 3232 3 TECH 3281 4 15 17 SENIOR YEAR TECH 3251 4 *General Education 3 TECH 4234 4 TECH 4235 [I] 4 TECH 4261 4 TECH 4272 4 TECH 4381 3 TECH 4462 [C] 3 TECH 4474 3 TECH 4944 [I,W] 3 18 17 *Must satisfy General Education degree requirements. ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY This area of study is designed for students interested in the application of electronics theory and techniques to the fields of communications, industrial electronics, mentation, and computer electronics. Requirements The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]for this major are as follows: The Major: 68-70 hours including TECH 1010, 1711, 1811, 2230 (4), 2821, 2831, 3232, 3233 (4), 3440, 3811, 3812, 3821, 3822 (4), 3841, 4234 (4), 4381, 4821 (4), 4823, 4841, and two technical electives (6-8 hours) approved by an advisor. TYPICAL SEQUENCE FRESHMAN YEAR *General Education 3 CHEM 1101 4 ENGL 1101 3 ENGL 1102 3 MATH 1213 4 MATH 1321 4 TECH 1010 3 TECH 1411 1 TECH 1521 3 TECH 1711 3 HPER 1100 2 TECH 1811 3 *Physical Activity 2 18 20 SOPHOMORE YEAR *General Education 3 COMM 2381 3 ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 PHYS 2002/2120 4 PHYS 2001/2110 4 *General Education 3 TECH 2821 3 TECH 2230 4 TECH 3044 [C] 4 TECH 2831 3 17 17 JUNIOR YEAR *General Education 3 Technical Elective 3-4 *General Education 3 TECH 3233 4 TECH 3232 3 TECH 3812 3 TECH 3811 3 TECH 3822 4 TECH 3821 3 TECH 3841 3 ENGL 3601 3 18 17-18 SENIOR YEAR *General Education 3 *General Education 3 TECH 4234 4 TECH 3440 3 TECH 4381 3 TECH 4821 4 TECH 4823 3 TECH 4841 3 Technical Elective 3-4 TECH 4944 [W,I] 3 16-17 16 * Must satisfy General Education degree requirements. MANUFACTURING ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY This program is designed for those individuals interested in careers in the manufacturing or service industries. Students will study a combination of technological and mechanical concepts coupled with quantitative management techniques that will enable them to design, control, and manage both traditional and automated industrial systems that utilize complex machinery and production systems. Graduates of this program are employed in the areas of quality assurance, supervision, plant management, manufacturing engineering technology, materials handling, industrial safety, systems planning, process planning, computer integrated manufacturing, technical sales, customer service, and warehouse management.The Major: 64 hours including TECH 1010, 1611, 1711, 1811, 3386, 3401, 3408 (4), 3421, 3440, 3462, 3470, 3573, 4381, 4460, 4462 [C], 4464, 4466, 4472, 4474, 4476, 4571. TYPICAL SEQUENCE FRESHMAN YEAR ENGL 1101 3 *General Education 3 MATH 1213 4 ENGL 1102 3 TECH 1010 3 HPER 1100 2 TECH 1411 1 MATH 1321 4 TECH 1521 3 TECH 1611 3 TECH 1711 3 TECH 1811 3 17 18 SOPHOMORE YEAR CHEM 1101 4 COMM 2381 3 ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 *General Education 3 HIST 2601 3 HIST 2602 3 The Herff College of 12:03:23 PM]PHYS 2001/2110 4 PHYS 2002/2120 4 TECH 3044 [C] 4 Physical Activity 2 *General Education 3 18 18 JUNIOR YEAR ENGL 3601 3 *General Education 3 TECH 3401 3 TECH 3386 3 TECH 3408 4 TECH 3440 3 TECH 3421 3 TECH 3470 3 TECH 3462 3 TECH 3573 3 TECH 4460 3 16 18 SENIOR YEAR *General Education 3 TECH 4462 [C] 3 Technical Elective 3 TECH 4466 3 TECH 4381 3 TECH 4476 3 TECH 4464 3 TECH 4571 3 TECH 4472 3 TECH 4944 [W,I] 3 TECH 4474 3 16 15 * Must satisfy General Education degree requirements. THE MINORS In the minors listed below, some prerequisites may not be listed. Check course listings and observe all prerequisites before enrolling in the courses required for the minor. ARCHITECTURAL TECHNOLOGY: TECH 1555, 1561, 2555, 3520, 4535, 4600. COMPUTER ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY: TECH 1210, 1811, 2261 (4), 2821, 3232, 3233, 3251, 4261 (4). ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY: TECH 1811, 2820, 2821, 2831, 3811, 3821, 3841. MANUFACTURING ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY: TECH 1521, 1711, 3421, and observe prerequisites when enrolling for 9 additional hours from TECH 4460, 4462, 4464, 4466, 4472, 4474, 4476, 4571, 4950, 4991. SAFETY: TECH 1711, 3386, 4381, 4950; HLTH 4802; SAFE 2102. SURVEYING: TECH 1521, 2451, 3451; GEOG 4510, 4511; PHYS 1002, 1020, 1102. TECHNOLOGY: TECH 1411, 1521, 1711, and 15 additional semester hours in technology courses, 9 semester hours of that must be from the upper division in one of the specific technology areas. The Loewenberg School of 12:03:24 PM]THE LOEWENBERG SCHOOL OF NURSINGToni Bargagliotti, D.N.Sc., R.N., Dean Newport Hall PURPOSESThe primary function of The Loewenberg School of Nursing is to offer a program of study designed to prepare students for careers in professional nursing. As a part of a comprehensive university, the school is dedicated to developing scholarship in nursing and providing services that support the institutional mission. The program is designed to accommodate the needs of high school graduates, transfer students, college graduates, licensed practical nurses, and registered nurses who are graduates of diploma or associate degree nursing programs. The school is committed to: (1) providing a curriculum leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Nursing basic to beginning professional practice and graduate study in nursing; (2) promoting the intellectual, personal and professional development of students by offering a curriculum that combines a strong liberal education with the professional major; (3) providing a plan of study with flexible options that are responsive to the individual learner's needs; (4) encouraging the use of opportunities available in a comprehensive university setting to foster values, attitudes and personal qualities essential to living a fulfilling life and contributing to a diverse society, (5) producing politically and socially conscious graduates who are competent practitioners in a variety of settings; and (6) preparing graduates who assume leadership roles to effect change for a healthy society. The faculty of the Loewenberg School of Nursing are clinician scholars who are dedicated to creating a community where each person is valued, supported, mentored, and recognized for contributions to past, present, and future health care and nursing education. We value our cultural and disciplinary diversity because the bridges of understanding we build to each other provide the foundation for excellence in clinical practice and in scholarly inquiry. We create a community of scholarliness, collegiality, and caring because it is the greatest legacy we give to those who seek to learn with and from us. Because our students are the future of health care for our global community, we freely share with them our passion for creativity, learning, excellence, empathic understanding, and caring for others. Our quest for excellence in nursing education will know no boundaries as we continually seek innovative approaches through the creative and scholarly work of our faculty and students. As a school within an urban university, our educational programs are inextricably linked in a responsive way to the community we serve. Our efforts are dedicated to our students, who are our greatest resource, and our hope for a future of health for all. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES Baccalaureate graduates of the Loewenberg School of Nursing: 1. Use nursing knowledge, theory, and research to provide culturally sensitive, cost effective nursing care to individuals, families, and communities. 2. Use the nursing process to promote adaptive health behaviors in individuals, families, and communities.3. Use critical thinking skills derived from a synthesis of theoretical, empirical, and intuitive knowledge from other scientific disciplines and the humanities to formulate nursing judgment. 4. Collaborate with other health care providers and consumers to provide access to health care and promote the health and well-being of diverse people. The Loewenberg School of 12:03:24 PM]5. Incorporate professional values with ethical, moral, spiritual, and legal aspects of nursing practice. 6. Incorporate leadership and management skills with knowledge of political systems to enhance the quality of nursing and health practices. 7. Communicate effectively to implement the diverse roles of nursing with individuals, families, groups, communities and society. 8. Evaluate research and incorporate selected components and findings appropriately into nursing practice.9. Assume responsibility and accountability for the continuing effectiveness of one's own nursing practice and professional development. 10. Participate in the implementation of nursing roles designed to meet the emerging health needs of the general public in a changing society. ORGANIZATIONThe Loewenberg School of Nursing is organized as one unit under the leadership of a dean. The curriculum leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Nursing includes general education and support courses offered through other units of the university as well as the major requirements offered by the school. A comprehensive approach to health care is emphasized through utilization of a wide variety of health care settings available in Memphis and the surrounding community. The faculty of the Loewenberg School of Nursing represents all clinical areas of nursing practice and a variety of experiences and interests. They reflect this diversity in their teaching, practice and research and are qualified by practical experience as well as by academic credentials, to function as facilitators of learning.The Loewenberg School of Nursing holds membership in the American Association of Colleges of Nursing, Southern Council for Collegiate Education in Nursing, and the National League for Nursing Council for Baccalaureate and Higher Degree Programs. The program is accredited by the National League for Nursing and approved by the Tennessee Board of Nursing. ADMISSION AND ADVISING Core performance standards for admission and progression: A. Critical thinking ability sufficient for clinical judgement. B. Interpersonal abilities sufficient to interact with individuals, families, and groups from a variety of social, emotional, cultural, and intellectual backgrounds. C. Communication abilities sufficient for interaction with others in verbal and written form. D. Physical abilities sufficient to move from room to room and maneuver in small spaces. E. Gross and fine motor abilities sufficient to provide safe and effective nursing care. F. Auditory ability sufficient to monitor and assess health needs. G. Visual ability sufficient for observation and assessment necessary in nursing care. H. Tactile ability sufficient for physical assessment. The Loewenberg School of 12:03:24 PM]ADMISSION-BASIC STUDENTS All basic students who wish to earn the Bachelor of Science in Nursing must be admitted to the Loewenberg School of Nursing. To be admitted to the school, a student must: 1. Be admitted to The University of Memphis as a degree-seeking undergraduate student. 2. Have a minimum college cumulative grade point average of 2.0, a cumulative of 2.4 in prerequisite sciences, and *a grade of C or better in ENGL 1101 and 1102 and all prerequisite sciences. 3. Have completed specified pre-nursing courses: *ENGL 1101, 1102 (6); *BIOL 1751/1752, 1761/1762 (8); *BIOL 1451/1452 (4); *CHEM 1101, 1102 (8); SOCI 1111 or PSYC 1101; CSED 2202 Nutrition; EDPR 2111 Development Across the Lifespan; Mathematics (3) selected from approved courses in the School of Nursing's General Education Section below. 4. Have a minimum score of 600 on the TOEFL (for students for whom English is a second language). 5. Have cleared all high school deficiencies. 6. Students who are transferring from another nursing program must submit a letter of good standing from the dean/director of the previous nursing program. 7. Complete and submit School of Nursing application for admission with The University of Memphis transcript and copy of The University of Memphis transfer credit evaluation (if applicable) to: Loewenberg School of Nursing The University of Memphis Newport Hall, Room 101 Memphis, TN 38152 If there are more applicants than places available, acceptance will be based on the student's QPA and criteria specified in the written policies of the program. CRITERIA:1. Students must have complete files by the deadline (February 15 for Fall; October 1 for Spring) to be considered.2. Acceptance into the school will be based on rank-- order cumulative QPA. 3. If individuals have the same QPA, the order will be determined by the amount of prerequisite and support course work completed. 4. A new list will be created each semester. Students who are not accepted must reapply for consideration the next semester. 5. An alternate list will be established each semester to fill vacancies that might occur before the beginning of class. The criteria for the alternate list will be the same as for the acceptance list. ADVANCED PLACEMENT ADMISSION-RN STUDENTS To be admitted with advanced placement, the Registered Nurse must: 1. Be admitted to The University of Memphis as an undergraduate student. 2. Have current licensure as a Registered Nurse in Tennessee. The Loewenberg School of 12:03:24 PM]3. Submit evidence of recent clinical practice. 4. Have a minimum college cumulative grade point average of 2.0. Prior to entering NURS 3250, the Registered Nurse must have completed specified pre-nursing courses: *ENGL 1101, 1102 (6); *BIOL 1751/1752, 1761/1762 (8), *BIOL 1451/1452 (4); *CHEM 1101, 1102 (8); SOCI 1101 or PSYC 1101; CSED 2202 Nutrition; EDPR 2111 Development Across Lifespan; Mathematics (3) selected from approved courses in the School of Nursing's General Education selection below. * a grade of C or better ACADEMIC ADVISING-BASIC STUDENTS Basic students who are completing courses required for admission to The Loewenberg School of Nursing receive advising through the Academic Counseling Unit located in Scates Hall. The assistant to the dean of the school, however, will be happy to answer inquiries from students regarding admission requirements. Following admission to the School of Nursing, each student is assigned an advisor from the school. The advisor will assist the student in planning for completion of the BSN program and will provide the opportunity for meaningful discussion regarding academic progress and career goals. This assistance, however, does not in any way relieve the student of the primary responsibility for studying the Catalog and fulfilling all the requirements for the degree. ACADEMIC ADVISING-RN STUDENTS Each Registered Nurse student who is admitted to The University of Memphis and who declares Nursing as a major is assigned a Loewenberg School of Nursing advisor. The advisor will assist the student with academic planning including formal application for admission to the school. Following admission, the advisor will assist the student with planning for completion of the BSN program and will provide the opportunity for meaningful discussion regarding academic progress and career goals. This assistance, however, does not in any way relieve the student of the primary responsibility for studying the Catalog and fulfilling all the requirements for the degree. LOANS AND SCHOLARSHIPS Students are encouraged to complete applications and forms for financial aid. These are available in the Student Financial Aid Office. Some scholarships are also available through The Loewenberg School of Nursing. See Section 3 of this bulletin for a list. Applications for scholarships are available in the school office.RESIDENCYUniversity residence requirements are explained in detail in the Graduation from the University section of this catalog. Note that students transferring from a community or junior college must complete a minimum of sixty semester hours in an accredited senior institution. In addition, 33 of the last 66 semester hours for the degree must be completed at The University of Memphis. ACADEMIC PROGRAMS DepartmentMajorClick below for Major Requirements Click on Tiger Paw for Course Descriptions Concentrationwithin Major Degree Offered Click below for Degree Requirements*NursingNONEBachelor of Science in Nursing (B.S.N.) *The school is not composed of departments. The Loewenberg School of 12:03:24 PM]DEGREE REQUIREMENTS 1. To qualify for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Nursing, the student must complete a minimum of 132 semester hours with the minimum overall quality point average of 2.0 and must meet specific grade requirements described below. 2. A minimum grade of C must be earned for English 1101 and 1102, each required science course, each required upper division course, and each required nursing course. 3. Detailed course requirements are described below under General Education Requirements, Other Support Course Requirements, and Nursing Course Requirements. General Education Requirements English Composition (6 hours): ENGL 1101,1102 with a minimum grade of C. Oral Communication and Rhetoric (3 hours): COMM 2381. Mathematics (3-6 hours): MATH 1181 and 1182; or one of the following: MATH 1312, 1321 (4), or 2000. Literary Heritage (3 hours): ENGL 2201 or 2202. Fine Arts Heritage (3 hours): ART 1101, COMM 1851, DANC 1151, MUHL 1101, or THEA 1551. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (6 hours): One course from pre-1500: CLAS 2481, HIST 1301, PHIL 1101, POLS 1101, UNIV 2850, UNIV 3580; plus one course from post-1500: HIST 1302, PHIL 1102, POLS 1102, UNIV 2860, 3581. American Heritage (6 hours): HIST 2601 or 2602; plus one of the following: ANTH 3282, GEOG 3401, HIST 2601, HIST 2602, HIST 3863, HIST 3900, HIST 4851, HIST 4881, POLS 4212, POLS 4405, SOCI 3422. Social Science (6 hours): One course from list A and one from B: A. (Global Perspective): ANTH 1200, CJUS 2110, ECON 2110, GEOG 1301, GEOG 1401, POLS 2301, POLS 2501, PSYC 2201, SOCI 2100, SOCI 2101/CSED 2101, UNIV 2304. B. PSYC 1101, SOCI 1111. Natural Science (8 hours-Sequence required): CHEM 1101, 1102 or CHEM 1121, 1131, 1122, 1132, with a minimum grade of C. (Completed in the past 7 years. Refer to Science Course Validation Section.) Fitness and Wellness: (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002, THEA 2501; AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). *Computation Intensive (3 hours): EDPR 4541, PSYC 3001, or SOCI 3311. *Writing Intensive (3 hours): NURS 4110 or any approved writing intensive course. *Integrative (3 hours): See Nursing Advisor. Computer Literacy: COMP 1200, NURS 3003, a course approved by the dean, or satisfactory score on university-approved computer literacy examination. *Under most circumstances, transfer courses may not be used to satisfy the requirements for a computation intensive, writing intensive, or integrative general education requirement. Credit by examination may not be used to fulfill these requirements. Support Course Requirements Biology (12 hours): BIOL 1751/1752, 1761/1762, 1451/1452, with a minimum grade of C and a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.40. (Completed in the past 7 years. Refer to Science Course Validation Section.) The Loewenberg School of 12:03:24 PM]Growth and Development: (3 hours): EDPR 2111. Nutrition (3 hours): CSED 2202. Statistics (3 hours): EDPR 4541 [C], PSYC 3001 [C], or SOCI 3311 [C], with a minimum grade of C. Chemistry: See the natural science requirement above. Nursing Course Requirements-Basic Students Nursing (60 hours): NURS 2217, 2218 (1), 2219 (2), 2220 (1), 3000, 3101, 3117 (2), 3118 (1), 3119 (2), 3127 (2), 3129, 3217 (2), 3219, 3227 (2), 3229, 3400, 4110 [W], 4117 (2), 4119, 4120, 4127, 4129, 4227, 4229 (5). Nursing Elective (3 hours): NURS 3003, 4300-09, 4800. Nursing Course Requirements-RN Students Nursing (32 hours): NURS 3000, 3101, 3250, 3400, 4110, [W], 4120, 4127, 4129, 4227, 4229 (5). Nursing Elective (3 hours): NURS 3003, 4300-09, 4800. The remaining hours for the major requirements are fulfilled by validation of transfer credit hours in nursing for RN students. The following represent typical schedule plans for basic and RN students. BASIC STUDENTS FRESHMAN YEAR ENGL 1101 3 ENGL 1102 3 BIOL 1751/1752 4 BIOL 1761/1762 4 CHEM 1101 4 CHEM 1102 4 HPER 1100 2 MATH 3 1Social Science 3 1Fine Arts Heritage 3 16 17 SOPHOMORE YEAR ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 NURS 3400 3 BIOL 1451/1452 4 NURS 3101 3 EDPR 2111 3 NURS 2217 3 CSED 2202 3 NURS 2218 1 COMM 2381 3 NURS 2219 2 Physical Activity 2 NURS 3000 3 NURS 2220 1 18 16 JUNIOR YEAR NURS 3117 2 NURS 3217 2 NURS 3118 1 NURS 3219 3 NURS 3119 2 NURS 3227 2 NURS 3127 2 NURS 3229 3 NURS 3129 3 1Hist/Phil Heritage 3 1Social Science 3 1American Heritage 3 1American Heritage 3 16 16 SENIOR YEAR 2Statistics 3 NURS 4110 [W] 3 NURS 4117 2 NURS 4227 3 NURS 4119 3 NURS 4229 5 NURS 4127 3 NURS 4120 3 NURS 4129 3 1Hist/Phil Heritage 3 NURS Elective 3 17 17 1Refer to B.S.N. General Education requirements for approved courses. 2Take one of the following: EDPR 4541 [C], PSYC 3001 [C], SOCI 3311 [C]. NOTE: PROGRESSION OF NURSING COURSEWORK: All courses in group A must be completed before enrolling in any courses in group B. All courses in group B must be completed before enrolling in any courses in group C. A. Professional Foundation Courses: NURS 3101, 2217, 2218, 2219, 2220 (1), 3400, 3000. B. Provider of Care Courses: NURS 3117, 3118, 3119, 3127, 3129, 3217, 3219, 3227, 3229. The Loewenberg School of 12:03:24 PM]C. Coordinator of Care Courses: NURS 4117, 4119, 4127, 4129, 4227, 4228, 4110, 4120. RN (Upper Division Requirements) SUMMER PRECEDING SENIOR YEAR NURS 3250 3 SENIOR YEAR NURS 3000 3 NURS 4110 [W] 3 NURS 3101 3 NURS 4227 3 NURS 3400 3 NURS 4229 5 NURS 4127 3 NURS 4120 3 NURS 4129 3 NURS Elective 3 *Statistics 3 18 17 *Take one of the following: EDPR 4541 [C], PSYC 3001 [C], or SOCI 3311 [C]. Science Course Validation: If seven years have lapsed since credit was earned in BIOL 1751/1752 and 1761/1762 (Anatomy and Physiology), BIOL 1451/1452 (Microbiology), or CHEM 1101 and 1102, or CHEM 1121/1131 and 1122/1132, the content is considered outdated, and students are required to either repeat the course(s) or validate currency of knowledge. Validation of current knowledge may be accomplished by taking a higher level course in the same field or by examination. The NLN tests in Anatomy and Physiology, Chemistry and Microbiology are used for this purpose. A score at the fiftieth percentile or above is required. Registered nurses are required to submit evidence of recent clinical practice to validate currency of knowledge.Progression and Retention Criteria: A student who fails to earn a grade of C or better in a nursing theory course or pass in a practicum course may repeat the course one time. In repeating the course to achieve a satisfactory grade, both the theory and the practicum must be taken. They may not be repeated separately. Failure to earn a grade of C or better on the repeated course will result in dismissal from The Loewenberg School of Nursing. A maximum of two nursing courses may be repeated. A student who fails a third nursing course will not be allowed to progress in the school. A student who drops or withdraws from a nursing course may re-enter that course only once. Clinical Nursing Course Requirements: Before enrolling in a clinical nursing course, students must present evidence of current CPR certification, professional liability insurance ($1,000,000 per occurrence/$3,000,000 aggregate minimum coverage), appropriate immunizations and Titers, and a statement of good health, including a negative PPD skin test or chest x-ray. Immunizations and titers include DT, measles, mumps, polio, Hepatitis B; Rubella vaccine or titer showing immunity; varicela titer. The basic nursing student will pay for malpractice insurance at fee payment. RN students must purchase their own insurance and present evidence prior to enrolling in clinical nursing courses. RN students are also required to present evidence of current licensure in Tennessee. Students are encouraged to complete these requirements during the semester prior to anticipated enrollment. No student will be allowed to participate in clinical learning experiences until these requirements are satisfied. Credit By Exam: Credit for some of the upper division nursing courses may be earned through credit by examination. Other methods of earning credit are explained in detail in the Academic Regulations section of this catalog. RN Licensure: Upon graduation from the program, graduates are eligible to take the NCLEX examination for licensure at testing sites determined by the Tennessee Board of Nursing. Student Organizations: Students are encouraged to join their professional organization, Student Nurses' Association. This is the local chapter of the National Student Nurses' Association. Senior students who have achieved a 3.0 cumulative grade point average and who are recommended by faculty are eligible to apply for induction into Sigma Theta Tau, Beta Theta Chapter at Large of the international nursing honor society. The Loewenberg School of 12:03:24 PM] The University 12:03:25 PM]THEUNIVERSITY COLLEGE H. RAMSEY FOWLER, A.B., A.M.T., Ph.D., Dean Room G-1 Johnson Hall PURPOSEUniversity College serves special academic needs of adult and other nontraditional students at The University of Memphis. It does this by offering students a wide variety of individualized degree opportunities, by its administration of interdisciplinary degree programs, and by its oversight of tele- instruction. For faculty across the university, the University College provides the structure to explore and develop interdisciplinary ventures that may later be subsumed into other degree-granting units, in addition to encouraging the development of interdisciplinary courses and promoting the uses of such alternative instructional methods as team teaching and directed study. Finally, University College seeks to create and maintain a spirit of academic community through careful and concerned advising and interaction outside the classroom among students, faculty, staff, and community professionals. With broad responsibility for nontraditional, interdisciplinary and credit continuing education, University College is The University of Memphis's college of lifelong learning. ORGANIZATION OF THE COLLEGE The University College offers interdisciplinary courses and interdisciplinary and individualized degree opportunities. In addition, it administers units that enhance higher education access for adults and provide them with support services. The college is administered by a dean, the dean's staff, and the University College Faculty Council, which is made up of faculty from the other degree granting colleges. BACCALAUREATE PROGRAMS: Through Baccalaureate Programs, students are offered the opportunity to work on the development and completion of individualized and interdisciplinary programs leading to the Bachelor of Liberal Studies or the Bachelor of Professional Studies degree. Such programs range from Biomedical Illustration to Services for the Aging and from Commercial Aviation to Medieval Tradition in the Culture of the American South. In some areas group contract guidelines exist to assist students in the development of their programs. INTERDISCIPLINARY MINORS: Students majoring in any department in the university may enhance their academic program through an interdisciplinary minor. Minors in African-American Studies, American Studies, Judaic Studies, Religion in Society, and Women's Studies are offered. BORNBLUM JUDAIC STUDIES: Bornblum Judaic Studies presents the rich intellectual and cultural traditions of the Jewish people within the context of world cultures. An individualized major and a minor in Judaic Studies are available. PARALEGAL STUDIES: In addition to the Bachelor of Professional Studies in Paralegal Studies, the two- year Legal Assistant Certificate is offered to individuals pursuing career opportunities in a law office, government agency, or other organization. ADMISSION The University 12:03:25 PM]Students are admitted to The University of Memphis through the Office of Admissions and Records. Application forms may be obtained from that office and also from Extended Programs centers. After admission to the university, if students choose to pursue an interdisciplinary or individualized B.L.S. or B.P.S. degree, they must submit a separate application for admission to University College. Inquiries from persons considering a degree through University College are welcome; persons who believe that their interests will be best served by a baccalaureate program emphasizing personally designed education through contract degrees should attend an inquiry session. Information about dates and times for these sessions, which are held several times a month, may be obtained by calling the University College office. In addition to the University College application, two letters of recommendation and a non- refundable $15.00 screening fee must be submitted. Applications are reviewed by University College staff and, if appropriate, by selected faculty. After acceptance, students are advised in the development of their programs and instructed in a final special project by a faculty chairperson or a contract/advising committee chaired by a faculty member. A non-refundable $25.00 contract/advising fee must be paid when students are accepted. Students may apply more than the ordinary limit of transfer credit for extension, correspondence or armed services courses, provided the courses are an integral part of the coordinated study. BACCALAUREATE PROGRAMS The Contract Degree Students enrolling in the University College pursue either of two degrees: the Bachelor of Liberal Studies (B.L.S.) or the Bachelor of Professional Studies (B.P.S.). Both of these degrees must be awarded for programs that are systematic, interdisciplinary, and individualized. Students and advisors will use learning contracts to design individual studies. All contracts will be reviewed and approved by the administration of the University College, but individual contracts will be designed by a Contract/Advising Committee whose responsibility is to assist the student in the development and execution of a degree program that serves the student's needs and meets the academic requirements of the University College and of The University of Memphis. The chairperson and one other committee member must be regular or adjunct members of The University of Memphis Faculty. A third committee member is optional; this person may be a faculty member, an appropriate student, or an off-campus resource person. The committee may direct the student in the preparation of a portfolio to obtain credit for knowledge gained through experience or nontraditional instruction; see Expenses and Aid for a description of credit evaluation fees. The Baccalaureate Contract will include work in these major areas: General Education, Coordinated Study, Thematic Studies, Special Project, and Electives. General Education The general education program is that part of the undergraduate curriculum that promotes a common background for all baccalaureate candidates. The purpose of the general education program is threefold: to help students develop the skills necessary for completing a college career and assuming an active role in contemporary society, to give students an awareness of the diversity of human endeavors in intellectual, creative, social, and technological spheres, and to help students develop analytical and critical faculties that can be applied across the issues confronting them in the modern world. Above all, the general education program should make available to the student the tools and awareness necessary for active, lifelong learning and for active, literate participation in society. Thematic Studies Thematic Studies cross departmental and disciplinary lines to examine a theme, problem, issue, or epoch from several points of view. As upper-division courses, they are designed to provide ways for undergraduates to integrate the full scope of their studies more effectively than they are able to do within The University 12:03:25 PM]the traditional departmental structure. Thematic Studies do, however, require the special knowledge and expertise learned from and fostered by the traditional disciplines. All students will complete a minimum of six semester hours of thematic studies courses. Coordinated Study The Individualized Study component of the program includes a Coordinated Study Program of at least 30 upper-division hours in at least two academic disciplines followed by the Special Project described below. Credit may be earned through courses offered by departments in the other degree-granting colleges, credit by examination, credit for experiential learning, transfer credit, internships or apprenticeships, independent studies, and additional Thematic Studies courses. Students may apply more than the ordinary limit of transfer credit for extension, correspondence, or armed services courses, provided the courses are an integral part of the Coordinated Study. For a University College student, the Coordinated Study Program corresponds to a departmental major. Students must earn a C or above in each graded course. All Coordinated Study programs must include a minimum of nine graded upper division hours taken at The University of Memphis. These hours must be earned in courses from two or more departments. A maximum of 33 hours for portfolio-based credit for experiential learning may be applied toward a degree. The Special Project The Special Project will be designed as a synthesizing activity, interdisciplinary in nature, by which the student demonstrates in a sustained manner comprehension and command of the complex skills and understanding encompassed by the Coordinated Study program. A faculty advisor/chairperson supervises the student's work on the project. The Special Project carries 9 semester hours credit. Students must earn at least a grade of C on their Special Projects. Projects must also receive administrative approval before students are certified for graduation. ElectivesStudents are not required to take electives. They may include courses in any subject area as electives in their degree program. Computer Literacy This requirement can be satisfied by taking one of the following courses or course combinations or another course of study approved by the dean: COMP 1200; ISDS 2750; ACCT 2410; ART 3225; ART 4222; JOUR 2121; JOUR 3900; ICL 3600; CIVL 2107 and CIVL 3101; ELEC 1206 and ELEC 1207; MECH 1307 and MECH 3341; TECH 1010 or 1210 and 3233, NURS 3003. EvaluationThe following methods are used to evaluate a student's performance: the traditional grading systems, Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory and Credit/No Credit options supplemented by written narrative evaluations, credit or placement by examination, Advanced Placement examinations for degree credit where these are available, and credit for validated learning from experience or non-traditional instruction. Of the 132 semester hours required for graduation, at least 33 of the last 66 hours must be earned through instruction from The University of Memphis. HonorsStudents in University College may earn Honors distinction by fulfilling requirements for the Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors Program or the Individual Thematic Honors Program. Both of these programs require 18 hours of upper division course work, some of which may count toward the Bachelor of Liberal Studies, Bachelor of Professional Studies, or general education requirements, and some of which may be part of the student's elective hours. The University 12:03:25 PM]ACADEMIC PROGRAMS DepartmentMajorClick below for Major Requirements Click on Tiger Paw for Course Descriptions Concentrationwithin Major Degree Offered Click below for Degree Requirements*Individual Studies See Advisor **Bachelor of Liberal Studies (B.L.S.)Bachelor of Professional Studies (B.P.S.) Legal Assistant NONECertificate* The college is not composed of departments. Its programs are interdisciplinary and may make use of all departments in the university. ** The student and an advisory committee design contract degrees. Group guidelines are available for the following concentrations: African-American Studies, Women's Studies, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services, Human Services, Health Care Fields, Services for the Aging, Orthotics/Prosthetics and Related Fields, Commercial Aviation, Printing Management, Biomedical Illustration, Aviation Administration, Fire Administration/Fire Prevention Technology, Paralegal Services, Pre-School and Childcare Administration, Organizational Leadership. DEGREE REQUIREMENTS GENERAL EDUCATION SEMESTER HOURS Basic College Skills [12-15 hrs] Communication [9 hrs] ENGL 1101 English Composition (3) ENGL 1102 English Composition and Analysis (3) COMM 2381 Oral Communication (3) Mathematics [3-6 hrs] MATH 1181-1182 Concepts of Number/Concepts of Algebra (6) MATH 1312 Elementary Calculus (3) MATH 1321 Analytic Geometry and Calculus (4) MATH 2000 Experiences in Mathematics (3) Human Studies [12 hrs] 1. Literary Heritage [3 hrs] ENGL 2201 Literary Heritage (3) ENGL 2202 Literary Heritage African-American Emphasis (3) 2. Fine Arts Heritage [3 hrs] ART 1101 Introduction to Art (3) COMM 1851 Introduction to Film (3) DANC 1151 Introduction to Dance (3) MUHL 1101 Music Appreciation (3) THEA 1551 Introduction to Theater (3) 3. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (pre-1500) [3 hrs] CLAS 2481 Mythology (3) HIST 1301 Development of World Civilization I (3) PHIL 1101 Classical Issues in Philosophy (3) POLS 1101 Introduction to Ancient Political Thought (3) UNIV 2850 Religions of Abraham: Judaism, Christianity, Islam (3) UNIV 3580 Hebrew and Greek Legacy (3) 4. Historical/Philosophical Heritage (post-1500) [3 hrs] HIST 1302 Development of World Civilization II (3) PHIL 1102 Values and the Modern Word (3) POLS 1102 Introduction to Modern Political Thought (3) UNIV 2860 Historical/Philosophical Perspectives on CulturalConfrontations (3) UNIV 3581 Faith, Reason and Imagination (3) The University 12:03:25 PM]Social Institutions/Social Science [6 hrs] This requirement can be fulfilled either by taking one course from group 1 and one course from group 2, or by taking two courses from group 2. Group 1 ANTH 1100 Human Origins and Variations (3) CJUS 1100 Introduction to Criminal Justice (3) ECON 2120 Introduction to Microeconomics (3) POLS 1100 American Government (3) PSYC 1101 General Psychology (3) SOCI 1111 Introductory Sociology (3) Group 2 ANTH 1200 Cultural Anthropology (3) CJUS 2110 Comparative Criminal Justice Systems (3) ECON 2110 Introduction to Macroeconomics (3) GEOG 1301 Survey of World Regions (3) GEOG 1401 Introduction to Cultural Geography (3) POLS 2301 Comparative Politics (3) POLS 2501 International Politics (3) PSYC 2201 Deviance: Its Role in History and Culture (3) SOCI 2100 Sociology of International Development (3) SOCI/CSED 2101 The Family in Global Perspective (3) UNIV 2304 Gender and Society (3) Natural Sciences [8 hrs] Choose one from following sequences: BIOL 1051/1052-1061/1062 Biology A Human Perspective (8) BIOL 1151/1152-1161/1162 General Biology (8) CHEM 1101-1102 College Chemistry (8) CHEM 1131/1121-1132/1122 Principles of Chemistry (8) GEOG 1001/1011-1002/1022 Introduction to Environmental and Earth Science (8) GEOL 1101-1103 Physical and Environmental Geology (8) PHYS 1001/1010-1002/1020 Intro Physics/Survey Astronomy (8) PHYS 2003/2510-2004/2520 Physics for Science & Engineering (8) UNIV 1610-1611 Natural Science (8) Fitness and Wellness [4 hrs] HPER 1100 Concepts of Fitness and Wellness (2) In addition, students must take physicalactivity course(s) from the university General Education approved list. (2) Writing Intensive Requirement (3 hrs): One [W] course from the university General Education approved list. Computation Intensive Requirement (3 hrs): One [C] course from the university General Education approved list. Integrative Requirement (3 hrs): UNIV 4996, Special Project (9) THEMATIC STUDIES [6 hrs] All students must take six semester hours of courses chosen from the following: UNIV 3500-3599 Thematic Studies (3-9) UNIV 4500-4599 Advanced Thematic Studies (3-9) COORDINATED STUDY [30 hrs] Students must complete a minimum of 30 upper division hours from two or more departments. SPECIAL PROJECT [9 hrs] [I] UNIV 4996 Special Project (9) The University 12:03:25 PM]COMPUTER LITERACY [varies] (-) ELECTIVES [vary] (-) Total 132 hrs ADVISING GUIDELINES Bachelor of Liberal Studies BORNBLUM JUDAIC STUDIES Bornblum Judaic Studies explores the experience of the Jewish people within the contexts of world cultures. Non-theological in its orientation, it provides students the opportunity to study related areas, including the history of the Jewish people, the structures and politics of Jewish communities, the Hebrew and Arabic languages, and the religious, intellectual, and aesthetic traditions of the Jewish people. Courses offered for Bornblum Judaic Studies are open to all students. A. LOWER DIVISION CORE Hebrew Language Core (12 hours): HEBR 1101-1102 Elementary Hebrew (6) HEBR 2201-2202 Intermediate Hebrew (6) Religious Studies Core (3 hours): UNIV 2850 Religions of Abraham: Judaism, Christianity, Islam (3) B. UPPER DIVISION CORE (6 hours): UNIV 3801 Jewish Thought (3) ORUNIV 4801 Jewish Mysticism and Reason [W] (3) UNIV 3275 History of the Jewish People (3) C. JEWISH STUDIES ELECTIVES (12 HOURS): Choose four from the following: UNIV 3801 Jewish Thought (3) UNIV 4801 Jewish Mysticism and Reason [W] (3) UNIV 4830 Politics of Israel (3) HIST 3271 History of the Mid East (3) HIST 4320 Ancient Near East (3) ENGL 4661 Bible Literature (3) With the permission of the Director of Bornblum Judaic Studies, students may substitute up to two courses for the electives listed above. Such courses will have substantial Judaic Studies content. D. JUDAIC STUDIES CHAIR OF EXCELLENCE COURSES (9 HOURS): Choose three: Each year, the Bornblum Judaic Studies hosts a major scholar in the field of Jewish Studies. All Judaic Studies students will take at least three courses offered by these scholars. Courses will be offered in cooperating departments such as English, History, Philosophy, Art, Sociology, and Political Science. E. THEMATIC STUDIES (6 Hours) UNIV 3580 Hebrew and Greek Legacy (3) UNIV 3581 Faith, Reason, Imagination (3) F. SPECIAL PROJECT (9 hours) UNIV 4996 Special Project [I] (9) The University 12:03:25 PM]G. GENERAL ELECTIVES: Recommended:ART 4121 Ancient Art of the Near East (3) PHIL 4711 Philosophy of Religion (3) POLS 3102 Religion and Politics (3) SOCI 3860 Sociology of Religion (3) AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDIES African American Studies re-examines history, society and the arts from a different perspective, giving recognition to the achievements of African Americans and directing scholarship toward the totality of the African American experience. In addition, it offers all students an intellectual framework for discerning and dealing with racism; informs and awakens all students to the cultural heritage of African Americans to promote improved self-understanding regardless of race; and provides African American students with positive models of leadership, personal development and social commitment. Advising Clusters As a service to students interested in African American Studies, the following groups of courses have been identified for students who wish to select a cohesive group of electives to support major programs of study or other academic goals. Though these are not formal programs of study, students are advised to complete at least three courses in any single group in order to experience depth of knowledge and understanding in a given area. Race Relations and Interracial Communication: This group of courses has been identified as supportive of the programs of those students who may wish to teach in the schools; work as counselors, therapists or social workers; participate in community and/or social service agencies; undertake business ventures in minority areas or with minority clients; or prepare for careers as attorneys.COMM 3361 African American Rhetoric COMM 4373 Interracial Communication SOCI 3401 Social Inequality SOCI 3420 Sociology of the South SOCI 3422 Racial and Ethnic Minorities: A Socio-Historical Approach SOCI 4420 Racial Inequality Backgrounds and Historical Development: Students completing this group may wish to pursue anthropological and/or historical study; examine relationships between art forms and cultural development; understand their own history in relation to African cultures; gain backgrounds to the humanistic study of economic development; or pursue careers in such areas as international studies.ANTH 3242 Peoples of Africa ANTH 3342 Archaeology of Africa HIST 4881 Black American History SOCI 4460 Black and White Women in the South Cultural Forms and Expressions: This group of courses is designed for students interested in literary, art and/or musical history; those interested in becoming writers, artists, or musicians; and students of cultural history. ANTH 3342 Archaeology of Africa COMM 3361 African American Rhetoric ENGL 4371 African American Literature MUHL 4801 American Folk and Popular Music Social and Political Problems: This group of courses is designed for students of modern American history; those wishing to study and/or address contemporary social and political problems; those planning administrative, legal, or political careers; and those working with minorities and majority/minority issues. HIST 4881 Black American History POLS 4212 Constitutional Law: Civil Liberties SOCI 3401 Social Inequality SOCI 4420 Racial Inequality The University 12:03:25 PM]SOCI 4460 Black and White Women of the South POLS 4414 African American Political Thought Women's Studies Women's Studies at The University of Memphis is an interdisciplinary academic field encompassing women's history, work, literature, roles, and status in diverse classes, cultures, and societies. Focusing on the study of gender across the curriculum, Women's Studies reexamines and provides a critical context for the basic assumptions and theories on which traditional academic disciplines rest. Bachelor of Professional Studies Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services Students in Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services will develop contracts in either Social and Public Services or Administrative Services. All will take a core of courses in alcohol and drug abuse, social, and administrative services, and will complete their contracts by taking courses relevant to their concentrations. All students must have on-the-job experience, evaluated through internships or portfolio assessment, or both. Aviation Administration Students in Aviation Administration study in one of these three areas: General Administration and Management, Computer Systems, or Electronic Systems. In addition, thirty-four semester hours of academic credit are available for completion of three categories of FAA journeyman level instruction: Airport Traffic Control Tower, Air Route Control Center, and Flight Service Station. Credit by individual course is granted for Airways Facilities Journeyman and for instruction in all four categories beyond the journeyman level.Biomedical Illustration Students in Biomedical Illustration will take a common core of courses in art, photography, chemistry, and the life sciences. In addition to courses in biomedical illustration and biomedical photography, students will take appropriate courses in cinema, video, computer applications, and graphics. Students in Biomedical Illustration will complete internships in at least one setting in the Memphis area. Commercial Aviation Students in Commercial Aviation will study General Administration or Training Management, or develop contracts in areas of interest such as aviation and climatology and technological or computer systems. A student must hold private pilot license or other FFA ratings to be considered for admission. Academic credit is awarded for FAA ratings for Commercial Pilot, Instrument Rating, Multi-Engine Rating, and other ratings. Students are required to earn a minimum number of FAA ratings. Fire Administration and Fire Prevention Technology University College is the regional center for the Open Learning Fire Service Program (OLFSP), serving fire service personnel in Alabama, Arkansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, and Tennessee. OLFSP is a degree completion program, offering upper division courses in Fire Administration and Fire Prevention Technology. These courses are designed for independent study. Freshman and sophomore courses, electives, and other courses related to the fire service are taken at a college near the student's residence.CORE COURSES POLS 3613 Advanced Fire Administration TECH 3940 Analytic Approaches to Public Fire Protection [C] POLS 3612 Fire Prevention Organization and Management TECH 3944 Fire Protection Structure and Systems Design POLS 3615 The Community and the Fire Threat The University 12:03:25 PM]POLS 3614 [W]. Political and Legal Foundations of Fire Protection TECH 3948 Managerial Issues in Hazardous Materials FIRE ADMINISTRATION CONCENTRATION POLS 3610 Personnel Management for the Fire Service POLS 3611 Disaster and Fire Defense Planning TECH 3947 Applications of Fire Research FIRE PREVENTION TECHNOLOGY CONCENTRATION TECH 3942 Fire Related Human Factors TECH 3945 Incendiary Fire Analysis and Investigation TECH 3946 Fire Dynamics Health Care Administration Students following guidelines for Health Care Administration will be experienced health care professionals who have completed non-baccalaureate programs in health care specialties such as medical laboratory technology, respiratory therapy, radiological technology, and nursing, and who want to become administrators in health care settings. They will build upon their training and experience by taking courses in such areas as business practice, administration, interpersonal skills, policy, risk management, social context of health care, and financial management. Transfer credits for their health care specialty will be considered a part of their Coordinated Study. Human Services Students in Human Services are expected to develop a philosophical orientation to the human condition; to enlarge their understanding of social structures, values and norms; to study human growth and development; and to become informed about social change and social and bureaucratic organization. Students in Human Services will take courses from such departments as Counseling and Personnel Services, Sociology and Social Work, Psychology, Management, and Special Education. Organizational Leadership Organizational Leadership is designed to (1) promote understanding of the nature of bureaucratic organizations and the fundamentals of administrative leadership; (2) allow students to reflect upon national and international organizational contexts and upon significant social and cultural issues raised in those contexts; and (3) promote skills in formal and interpersonal communication, including sensitivity to personal issues having an impact upon the quality of accomplishment in the work place. In addition to meeting all entrance requirements for The University of Memphis, applicants must provide documentation of a minimum of five years of organizational leadership experience and present a transcript showing at least 45 semester hours of earned academic credit or an earned associate's degree. Orthotics/Prosthetics and Related Fields Entering students normally will have completed an Associate of Applied Science Degree in Orthotics and/or Prosthetics before being admitted to this baccalaureate program. Once in it, however, students will develop contracts in one of these areas: Patient Rehabilitation, Business Management, or Engineering Technology. Pre-School and Childcare Administration These guidelines are designed for persons seeking careers in the administration of early childhood programs including childcare centers, both for-profit and non-profit; private and public prekindergarten programs; Head Start; pre-schools; parents' day out programs; before and after school care; and centers for children with special needs. Also served by these guidelines are persons with experience in childcare settings from a wide variety of backgrounds, including childcare volunteers and aides, as well as teachers and directors. In addition to core content in early childhood professional knowledge, there is course work to develop skills in fiscal management, recruiting and hiring personnel, health and safety management, board relations, marketing and public relations, and liaison with professional associations and regulatory agencies. The University 12:03:25 PM]Note: This program does not lead to Tennessee state licensure for school administration. Printing Management This program is designed for printers who wish to become more effective managers and supervisors, to enable them to interact at a professional level with others who have received systematic managerial and supervisory training. They may wish to manage their own businesses, become managers in printing firms, or serve as in-plant printing managers for corporations, organizations, or institutions. Services for the Aging Students in Services for the Aging will take a core of courses in gerontology, adult development, and social policy for the aging. In addition, they will enroll in courses appropriate for those seeking employment as counselors, managers, teachers, activity directors, family life workers, personnel supervisors, and the like. Women's Studies Focusing on the study of gender across the curriculum, Women's Studies reexamines and provides a critical context for various professional fields. (See "Women's Studies" under "Bachelor of Liberal Studies.") PARALEGAL STUDIES Paralegal Studies courses are designed for students seeking professional knowledge and skills necessary to perform substantive legal work under the direction and supervision of an attorney. Only licensed attorneys are permitted to practice law; however, qualified paralegals and legal assistants working under attorney supervision can contribute significantly to efficient delivery of legal services in an expanding variety of private law office, corporate, and government agency settings. Paralegal Studies offers the B.P.S. in Paralegal Services and an academic certificate option. The paralegal professional core courses emphasize (1) theoretical and practical applications of legal and ethical principles; (2) collection, organization, and critical analysis of legal materials; (3) effective communications and computer skills; (4) initiative, flexibility, and cooperation in the workplace; and (5) preparation to meet the challenges of a still-evolving profession while avoiding the unauthorized practice of law by lay persons. Paralegal Studies is not designed as a pre-law program. Before taking paralegal courses, students should confer with the Paralegal Studies director to clarify their academic goals and select the appropriate course of study. The Paralegal Studies program has been approved by the American Bar Association. Paralegal Services Advising Guidelines Students selecting the B.P.S. in Paralegal Services complete all University College degree and graduation requirements including the Coordinated Study degree component according to the following guidelines (66 hours):A. PARALEGAL PROFESSIONAL CORE (36 hours) (At least 18 hours of these core courses must be completed at The University of Memphis with a minimum grade of C in each course.) Paralegal Requirements (27 hours): UNIV 2400 Professional Responsibility (3) UNIV 2410 Introduction to Law (3) UNIV 2420 Legal Research and Writing I (3) UNIV 3410 Contracts and Commercial Law (3) UNIV 3420 Torts (3) UNIV 3430 Business Associations (3) UNIV 3440 Civil Procedure (3) UNIV 3450 Legal Research and Writing II (3) UNIV 4410 Paralegal Internship (3) The University 12:03:25 PM]Paralegal/Law Related Electives (9 hours): Select three courses: CJUS 3510 Law and Society (3) CJUS 3512 Constitutional Criminal Procedure (3) CJUS 4530 Principles of Evidence and Proof (3) FIR 3310 Real Estate Principles (3) FIR 4011 Estate Planning and Taxation (3) POLS 3211 State and Local Governments (3) POLS 4217 The Legislative Process (3) UNIV 3481 Family Law (3) UNIV 3482 Labor Law (3) UNIV 3483 Computers in the Law (3) UNIV 3484 Bankruptcy Practices (3) UNIV 3485 Real Estate Practices (3) B. BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS (6 hours): ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting I (3) ISDS 2750 Introduction to Management Information System (3) C. COMMUNICATIONS REQUIREMENTS (6 HOURS): (one course from each group with a minimum grade of C in each course) Written Communications [W]: ENGL 3601, 3604, 4602; MGMT 3510. Interpersonal Communications: COMM 3341, 4341; COUN 4621, 4781. D. INTERDISCIPLINARY REQUIREMENTS (18 hours): (At least one course from each group with a minimum grade of C in each course) Business and Administrative Applications: ECON 4040, 4130; FIR 3011, 3130, 4011, 4310; MGMT 4230, 4460; POLS 3601, 4221. Philosophical and Constitutional Perspectives: CJUS 4531; HIST 3840; PHIL 4551; POLS 4211, 4212, 4405. Law in Society: CJUS 3426, 3510, 3521, 4170, 4520; POLS 4224, 4504; SOCI 3401, 3420. Ethical/Moral/Social Issues: CJUS 3152, 4130; PHIL 3411, 3514; SOCI 4420, 4442, 4631; POLS 3402. Research Statistical Applications [C]: CJUS 3129; EDPR 4541; POLS 4101; SOCI 3311. Legal Assistant Certificate Option Students seeking the certificate option must complete a minimum of 67 semester hours with a minimum cumulative QPA of 2.00. At least 18 hours of the Paralegal Professional Core component must be completed at The University of Memphis. Courses required for the certificate are: A. UNIVERSITY GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS (25 hours): ENGL 1101 English Composition (minimum grade of C) (3) ENGL 1102 English Composition and Analysis (minimum grade of C) (3) POLS 1100 American Government (3) MATH 1181 Concepts of Numbers (3) COMM 2381 Oral Communication (3) Natural Science course (4) Human Studies: One course from Fine Arts Heritage (3) One course from Historical/Philosophical Heritage (3) B. BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS (6 hours): ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting I (3) ISDS 2750 Introduction to Management Information Systems (3) The University 12:03:25 PM]C. PARALEGAL PROFESSIONAL CORE (36 hours): See B.P.S. guidelines listed above. A minimum grade of C is required for each course. NOTE: A student in the certificate program who is a veteran and whose cumulative QPA falls below 2.0 in any semester will be placed on probation. If the student does not bring the cumulative QPA up to 2.00 by the subsequent semester, The University of Memphis Office of Veterans' Affairs will no longer certify the student for VA benefits. MINORSAfrican-American Studies The Minor: 18 semester hours with courses chosen as follows: Group 1 (six semester hours) Choose two of the following: COMM 3361 African American Rhetoric (3) COMM 4373 Interracial Communication (3) SOCI 4420 Racial Inequality (3) Group 2 (three semester hours) Choose one of the following: ANTH 3242 Peoples of Africa (3) ANTH 3342 Archaeology of Africa (3) Group 3 (three semester hours) Choose one of the following SOCI 3401 Social Inequality (3) SOCI 3420 Sociology of the South (3) SOCI 3422 Racial and Ethnic Minorities: A Socio-Historical Approach (3) SOCI 4460 Black and White Women In the South (3) Group 4 (six semester hours) Choose two of the following: ENGL 4371 African American Literature (3) HIST 4881 Black American History (3) HIST 4882 Civil Rights Movement In the United States Since 1930 (3) MUHL 4802 Studies in American Folk and Popular Music (3) POLS 4212 Constitutional Law: Civil Liberties (3) With the signed approval of the Dean of the University College, students may substitute up to two courses for those listed above. Substituted courses will have substantial Black Studies content, and students will be allowed to do papers, projects, or other independent work on Black Studies issues. American Studies The American Studies minor engages students in an examination of the culture and society of the United States, with attention paid to the ways in which Americans express their basic values and give meaning to their institutions and everyday social practices. These values, institutions, and practices are a reflection, in part, of the different experiences of a people, according to their race, gender, class, and historical roots. This minor provides an opportunity to explore the commonalities and differences among Americans through an interdisciplinary course of study. The Minor: 18 semester hours of required courses and electives. A. REQUIRED CORE COURSES (6 HOURS) UNIV 3531 American Experience: Images and Narrative (3) UNIV 3541 American Experience: Language and Objects (3) B. ELECTIVE COURSES (12 HOURS) Select one course from each of the following groups, plus two additional courses from these groups. No more than two courses from any single department can be accepted. The University 12:03:25 PM]Group I COMM 4381 Rhetoric and Public Controversy (3) COMM 4851 Film History II (1940-1960) (3) COMM 4856 Women and Film (3) ENGL 3321 American Literature Before 1860 (3) ENGL 3322 American Literature 1860 to WWI (3) ENGL 3323 American Literature WWI to Present (3) ENGL 3521 The American Language (3) ENGL 4371 African American Literature (3) MUHL 4801 American Folk and Popular Music (3) MUHL 4804 Blues (3) MUHL 4805 History of Rock and Roll (3) MUHL 4806 History of Jazz (3) MUHL 4807 Memphis Music (3) Group 2 ANTH 3035 Indians of the Mid-South (3) ANTH 3282 Cultural History of American Communities (3) GEOG 3401 Historical Geography of United States (3) GEOG 4316 Geography of the South (3) HIST 3035 Technology and Culture in American History (3) HIST 3863 Social and Intellectual History of U.S. (3) HIST 4701 The United States: 1914 to WWII (3) HIST 4851 History of Women in America (3) HIST 4941 History of the American Indian (3) SOCI 3420 Sociology of the South (3) SOCI 4420 Racial Inequality (3) C. With the signed permission of the Dean of the University College or the Dean's designate, the following are acceptable: (1) A course from Group 1 of Section B can be substituted for one of the courses in Section A. (2) Up to two courses may be substituted for those listed in Section B. In content and approach, these courses will have a distinct American Studies emphasis. Judaic Studies The minor in Judaic Studies is open to students majoring in any department in the university, in addition to special students who wish to enroll in order to take this program. The Minor: 18 semester hours of required courses and electives. A. REQUIRED LANGUAGE [6 HOURS] HEBR 1101 Elementary Hebrew (3) HEBR 1102 Elementary Hebrew (3) HEBR 2201 Intermediate Hebrew (3) HEBR 2202 Intermediate Hebrew (3) B. ELECTIVE COURSES [12 HOURS] 1. Select two or three from the following: UNIV 2850 Religions of Abraham: Judaism,Christianity, Islam (3) UNIV 4801 Jewish Mysticism and Reason (3) HIST 3275 History of the Jewish People (3) UNIV 3801 Jewish Thought (3) 2. Select at least one from the following: ART 4121 Ancient Art of the Near East (3) ENGL 4461 The Bible as Literature (3) HIST 3271 The Middle East (3) UNIV 4830 The Politics of Israel (3) C. With the signed approval of the Director of Bornblum Judaic Studies, students may substitute one course not listed under B.2. In a given semester, a substituted course will be taught with substantial Judaic content, and students will be permitted to do papers, projects, or other independent work on Judaic subjects.Religion In Society The University 12:03:25 PM]The University College offers an interdisciplinary minor in Religion in Society. This minor examines the role of religion in society as seen from the perspectives of culture and social organization; of history and philosophy; of art and music. The minor is open to students majoring in any area in any of the undergraduate colleges or to special students who wish to enroll in order to take such a program. The Minor: 18 semester hours of core courses and electives. A. Required Core Courses PHIL 3701 The Human and the Divine ANTH 4253 Anthropology of Religion SOCI 3860 Sociology of Religion B. Additional Courses (select one course each from any three of the following four groups of courses): Group 1 ANTH 3351 Archaeology of Europe and Asia POLS 3102 Religion and Politics UNIV 4830 The Politics of Israel Group 2 PHIL 3411 Contemporary Moral Problems PHIL 3511 Ethics PHIL 3721 Oriental Philosophy PHIL 4711 Philosophy of Religion UNIV 3801 Jewish Thought UNIV 4801 Jewish Mysticism and Reason Group 3 HIST 3275 History of Jewish People HIST 3290 Traditional Asia HIST 4361 History of the Byzantine Empire HIST 4371 Early Middle Ages HIST 4372 High Middle Ages HIST 4390 Europe-Age of Reformation Group 4 ART 4121 Ancient Art of the Near East ART 4142 Northern Renaissance Art ART 4146 Baroque Art ART 4181 Traditional Arts of Africa, Oceania, and North America ART 4131 Early Christian and Byzantine Art ART 4134 Romanesque and Gothic Art MUSA 4104 Sacred Music in History & Practice I MUSA 4105 Sacred Music in History & Practice II MUSA 4801 Studies in Sacred Music ENGL 4461 Bible as Literature Women's Studies The Minor: 18 semester hours, including 6 hours from core courses and 12 hours of electives. A. Core Courses (Choose 2) UNIV 2304 Gender and Society UNIV 4304 Studies in Feminism HIST 4851 History of Women in America B. Electives (Choose 4) ANTH 3511 Culture, Kin, and Family ANTH 4551 Culture and Childbirth COMM 4856 Women and Film ENGL 4451 Studies in Women and Literature HIST 4831 History of American Family SOCI 3432 Sociology of Gender The University 12:03:25 PM]SOCI 4420 Racial Inequality SOCI 4460 Black and White Women in the South With the signed permission of a Women's Studies advisor, students may substitute up to two courses that focus on Women's Studies issues for those listed under B, above. Substituted courses will be taught with substantial Women's Studies content, and students will be permitted to do papers, projects, or other independent work on Women's Studies issues. PRE-THEOLOGY/RELIGIOUS STUDIES ADVISORY COMMITTEE: This committee recommends appropriate academic policies and procedure for advising students with career aspirations in the theological area or in the graduate academic study of religion or religious issues. The committee serves to inform students of different requirements such as languages and natural and social sciences. Dr. Stephen D. Benin, Judaic Studies, is chair and advisor. Independent Departments and 12:03:26 PM]INDEPENDENT DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS There are several independent units which contribute to undergraduate programs. The independent departments or programs included here are University Honors Program, The School of Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology, Interdisciplinary Studies, The University of Memphis Libraries, the Orientation Program, and Remedial and Developmental Studies. THE NATIONAL STUDENT EXCHANGE: The University of Memphis is a member of the National Student Exchange (NSE). Students at NSE member institutions may spend a semester or up to a full year at other participating institutions, while paying tuition and fees typically comparable to costs of attending The University of Memphis. Students might exchange to experience a different part of the country or to pursue special academic opportunities offered by other member institutions. Over 130 member institutions in nearly every state and Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands have exchanged over 40,000 students since the program was established in 1968. Participating students must have a 2.5 quality point average at the time of application for an NSE exchange. Applications are screened by The University of Memphis and will include biographical essays, transcripts, and letters of reference from faculty. Institutions to which students are applying then select incoming exchange students based on how many students they are able to accept and the strength of the students' applications. Ninety-seven percent of students are placed at their first, second, or third choice exchange institutions; 84% are placed at their first choice institution. For more information and applications see the NSE coordinator in the University Honors Program office. University Honors Program University Honors Course Descriptions School of Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology Interdisciplinary Studies The University of Memphis Libraries Orientation Program Remedial and Developmental Studies R&DS Course Descriptions UNIVERSITY HONORS PROGRAM PHYLLIS G. BETTS, Director Room 115, Old Brister Library The Honors Program provides exceptional educational opportunities for highly motivated and able students, including special curricular options and the opportunity to earn Honors distinction; an extensive co- curricular program emphasizing out-of-classroom experiences such as field trips, cultural events, or discussions with visiting scholars; and a social environment in which to meet other Honors students. The Honors Program also works individually with students planning for study abroad and other student exchange experiences, in pursuing career oriented or community service oriented internships, and in preparing applications for scholarships and career and graduate study opportunities. The Honors Program works closely with the Undergraduate Research Scholar Program, enabling students to develop research proposals with faculty mentors. Successful proposals and projects provide students invaluable hands-on experience with research in their academic field, including the possibility of presenting a paper based on the project at the National Conference on Undergraduate Research, held each year on a different university campus.Students may earn Honors distinction by meeting requirements for the Honors Certificate, based on completion of 12 hours of Honors course work, plus the Honors Forum, usually earned in the freshman and sophomore years; and/or fulfilling requirements for one of several Honors options offered in conjunction Independent Departments and 12:03:26 PM]with the student's major or Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors program, which is open to students in most majors. Appropriate Honors distinction is indicated on the student's transcript and is recognized at graduation. See Curriculum and Requirements below for detailed descriptions of these program options. The University Honors Program is governed by the Honors Council, a committee composed of the Director of the Honors Program, the Assistant Director of the Honors Program, six faculty members chosen by the Academic Senate, and two honors students elected by the Honors Student Association. The program is housed in Old Brister Library, Room 115, where the office of the director is located. A seminar-conference room and an honors lounge, both open to all students who are active in the Honors Program, are also located there. Admission and Program Standards Incoming freshmen who score at least 27 on the ACT, or its equivalent on other tests, are invited to participate. Transfer students or students previously enrolled at The University of Memphis are eligible for the program if they have an overall quality point average of 3.00 for freshmen and sophomores and 3.25 for upper-division students. Those who do not qualify in one of these ways will be considered for provisional acceptance upon direct application or receipt by the director of a recommendation from high school or college faculty. Students whose overall quality point average is below the requirement, but who would qualify based on quality point performance from the most recently completed full-time semester are especially encouraged to apply for provisional admittance. During the freshman and sophomore years the honors participant must maintain an overall quality point average of at least 3.0 to remain in good standing in the program; the minimum quality point average for continuing at the junior and senior levels is 3.25. There is provision for a one-semester probationary period before a participant is discontinued. Provisionally admitted students must maintain the 3.00 or 3.25 in each semester of Honors enrollment as long as their overall quality point average continues to be below the requirement for regular admittance to the program. A minimum grade of B is required in each honors course for it to count toward fulfilling the honors course requirement, but regular credit for the course will be earned if the grade is lower than a B. Curriculum and Requirements The Honors curriculum includes Honors sections of general education courses and other courses that fulfill special BA/BS requirements (for students pursuing the Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science degrees). Honors programs offered by some major departments also offer special Honors sections of courses required for the major. Honors sections have the advantage of small class size, specially selected faculty, teaching that emphasizes student participation, and assignments that encourage students to think independently. Students should consult the Schedule of Classes each semester for the roster of UNHP courses and departmental Honors sections and for the University Honors Program discussion in the descriptive section of the schedule, which follows the alphabetical listing of courses by department. Complete information, including course descriptions, is available directly from the Honors office. In addition to Honors sections of regularly offered courses, the Honors Program also offers courses designed specifically for Honors students. Courses carrying the UNHP prefix are designed for students pursuing the Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors curriculum or the Honors Certificate. Department and college Honors programs may also design special Honors courses; these courses usually are offered to majors only, but in some cases are open to other Honors students as well. Students also may earn Honors credit through participation in co-curricular programs; by designing their own special projects based on independent study, field work, or an internship experience (see UNHP 2900 and 4900 course descriptions); or by contracting for special projects within the context of a regularly scheduled course not officially offered as an Honors course. Within limits defined below, credit earned in these ways counts toward the Honors Certificate and may count toward other Honors options. Detailed information about earning Honors credit through these approaches is available in the Honors office. THE HONORS CERTIFICATE: The Honors Certificate typically is based on credit for Honors sections of Independent Departments and 12:03:26 PM]general education courses, but some credit toward the certificate may be earned in other ways. Requirements include the completion of 12 hours of Honors course work and the Honors Forum. (See UNHP 1100 for course description of Honors Forum.) Students are encouraged to pursue the Certificate during the freshman and sophomore years, but requirements may be completed at any point in the student's career. Students must have a 3.25 cumulative quality point average and a 3.25 average for Honors hours upon fulfillment of requirements to qualify for the certificate. "C" grades do not earn Honors credit, nor do they count toward the Honors Certificate. The following stipulations apply to the Honors Certificate: 1. Students may earn Honors credit for courses that count toward their majors, but unless these courses also earn general education or BA/BS credit, no more than three hours credit toward the certificate will be awarded for Honors work within the major.2. No more than three hours credit may be earned on a contract basis. 3. No more than three hours credit may be earned through UNHP 2900 or UNHP 4900. DEPARTMENT AND COLLEGE HONORS PROGRAMS: Some academic departments offer honors programs based on work in the major. Departments in the College of Business offer a college-wide program for students pursuing the Bachelor of Business Administration, and the College of Education offers students the opportunity to earn Honors distinction through special projects and independent study. Generally speaking, students must have a 3.25 cumulative quality point average to pursue and receive department or college Honors. Consult the specific department or college listing in this catalog for detailed requirements, or contact the Honors Program office for a listing of departments offering Honors work in the major. The Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors Program, which features interdisciplinary work outside the major department, also includes work within the major as a special emphasis for completion of program requirements.THE INTERDISCIPLINARY LIBERAL ARTS HONORS PROGRAM: Open to students in most majors (including students also pursuing department or college Honors), the Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors Program enriches the liberal education component of the Bachelor's degree. Since Honors students have a special potential to contribute to the discussion of public issues, regardless of their major, Liberal Arts Honors places strong emphasis on preparing students for citizenship and engagement in public discourse. This theme is the organizing principle for Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors. An additional emphasis within the major, including participation in an individually designed Honors project and writing an Honors thesis, complements the interdisciplinary theme. Students may pursue and earn Liberal Arts Honors if they have a 3.25 cumulative quality point average. It is not necessary to have earned the Honors Certificate to pursue Liberal Arts Honors. This program requires 18 hours of course work, some of which may count toward Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science, or general education requirements; some of which may count toward major requirements; and some of which will be part of the student's elective hours. Applicability of UNHP courses designed for Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts to general education and to B.A. and B.S. requirements is periodically evaluated. Information on current applicability for specific courses is available through the Honors Office. The distribution of course requirements is described below. 1. UNHP 3000: Human Communities (3 hours) 2. Interdisciplinary Seminars (9 hours) Three additional three-credit-hour interdisciplinary seminars, at least one from each of three different categories. Categories are based on the shell course concept. Shell courses specify goals and identify common concepts for the course, but specific topics vary from semester to semester. a. UNHP 4101-4199: Contemporary Issues b. UNHP 4201-4299: Cross-Cultural Perspectives c. UNHP 4301-4399: Science and Technology d. UNHP 4401-4499: Interdisciplinary Special Topics Independent Departments and 12:03:26 PM]3. Honors Experience in Major (3 hours) A specially designed Honors experience in the context of the major. May include special methodological experiences, internships, tutorials and readings, creative projects, applied projects such as evaluation research or investigative case studies, or enrollment in selected graduate courses. These courses typically will be offered with a departmental prefix and number, but UNHP 4900: Advanced Honors Projects, may be used in the absence of an appropriate departmental listing. 4. UNHP 4999: Honors Thesis (3 hours) In conjunction with a faculty mentor from the student's major department. Guidelines for students and faculty are available from the Honors Program Office. The Honors Program also conducts workshops for students undertaking the thesis. Students will register for the thesis in UNHP 4999 or the appropriate departmental course. THE INDIVIDUAL THEMATIC HONORS PROGRAM: The Individual Thematic Honors Program is an upper division Honors program option open to students in all majors. The Individual program enables students to propose a theme and design their own Honors program by selecting courses from different departments that apply to the chosen theme. The Individual Thematic Honors Program recognizes the interdisciplinary nature of contemporary fields of inquiry, where ideas, issues, and problems can benefit from the perspectives of more than one discipline. Individual Thematic Honors programs will have individual titles to be listed on the student's transcript. Students may pursue and earn Individual Thematic Honors if they have a 3.25 cumulative quality point average. The Individual Program requires 18 hours of upper division coursework, with 12 hours to be selected from honors sections of department or general education courses, courses offered by the Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors Program (see description above), or honors contracts for other courses. Courses selected to fulfill this 12 hour component of the Individual program may also be applied to general education, major, or other degree requirements as appropriate. The remaining six hours required for this eighteen hour program include a three hour individually designed independent study that encourages students to integrate concepts from the other courses and a three hour honors thesis. Individual Thematic Honors requires a proposal explaining the thematic rationale and discussing the selected courses that will apply to the program. The application is designed with the guidance and approval of a faculty mentor who will also work with the student on the three hour independent study and three hour Honors thesis. The proposal must be approved by the Honors Council. For more information consult with the Honors Director and obtain the guidelines and application form for the Individual Thematic Honors Program. (Note: Where a department/college Honors option is unavailable to students in particular majors, Individual Thematic Honors proposals may also be based on thematic work within a particular department.) The distribution of course requirements is described below. 1. Twelve hours of Honors courses selected by the student as appropriate to the program theme. Will typically be four courses chosen from upper division general education Honors sections, department Honors courses, Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors courses (see description for Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors above), and other courses for which the student will contract for Honors credit. 2. An individually designed independent study that enables the student to integrate concepts from the other courses as they apply to the course theme. Independent study awards three hours credit and may be based on readings, field work, or research as appropriate to the Individual Thematic Honors emphasis. Students may register for the independent study courses offered by their major department if appropriate or may register for UNHP 4900 Honors Projects for three hours credit to fulfill requirement.3. An Honors thesis for three hours credit, conforming to the expectations for the Honors thesis as outlined by the University Honors Program. Students will register for UNHP 4999 Honors Thesis or an equivalent department course. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]ARTS AND SCIENCES COURSE DESCRIPTIONS VIEWING TIP: If you choose to view course descriptions from different subjects during your visit to this page, CLICK and DRAG the SCROLL BAR to the top of the page to make your selection. ANTHROPOLOGY (ANTH) BIOLOGY (BIOL) CHEMISTRY (CHEM) CRIMINOLOGY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE (CJUS)ENGLISH (ENGL) FOREIGN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURESCLASSICS (CLAS) GREEK (GREK) LATIN (LATN) LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE (LALI) ARABIC (ARAB) CHINESE (CHIN) FRENCH (FREN) GERMAN (GERM) HEBREW (HEBR) ITALIAN (ITAL) JAPANESE (JAPN) RUSSIAN (RUSS) SPANISH (SPAN) GEOGRAPHY AND PLANNING (GEOG) GEOLOGICAL SCIENCES (GEOL) GEOPHYSICS (GEOP) HISTORY (HIST) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (INTL) MATHEMATICS (MATH) COMPUTER SCIENCE (COMP) PHILOSOPHY (PHIL) PHYSICS (PHYS) POLITICAL SCIENCE (POLS) OPEN LEARNING FIRE SERVICES PROGRAM (OLFSP)PSYCHOLOGY (PSYC) SOCIOLOGY (SOCI) SOCIAL WORK (SWRK) AEROSPACE STUDIES (AERO) MILITARY SCIENCE (ARMY) NAVAL SCIENCE (NAVY) ANTHROPOLOGYPROFESSOR LINDA A. BENNETT, Chair Room 314, Manning Hall ANTHROPOLOGY (ANTH) 1100. Human Origins and Variation. (3). Biological basis for understanding of humans; fossil record and origins of humans, human society and culture; primate models and human behavior today; race and other human variation today. [G]. 1200. Cultural Anthropology. (3). Origin and development of human culture. Social relations, language, government, religion and ritual, and problems of developing nations or minority groups in modern world. [G]. 3035. Indians of the Mid-South. (3). Archaeology and ethnology of Southeast; intensive study of various Indian cultures of Tennessee and bordering states. 3111. Human Paleontology. (3). Hominid fossil record starting with primate developments; human evolution; human osteology. 3200. Peoples and Cultures of the World. (3). (Same as GEOG 3200). Major ethnographic areas and selected cultures of the world.3225. Qualitative Methods of Field Research. (3). Various qualitative methods of anthropological research. Application in collecting life histories and writing ethnographic descriptions of contemporary societies. [W]. 3231. Indians of North America. (3). Description and distribution of aboriginal culture types of North America north of Mexico; comparisons and interrelationships during pre- and post-contact periods. 3232. Peoples of Latin America. (3). Description and distribution of peoples and cultures of South America and Mesoamerica; comparisons and interrelationships during pre- and post-contact periods. 3242. Peoples of Africa. (3). Description and distribution of peoples and cultures of Africa; comparisons and inter-relationships during pre- and post-contact periods. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]3272. Peoples of the South Pacific. (3). Description of peoples and cultures of Oceania (including Australia); comparisons and inter-relationships during pre- and post-contact periods. 3282. Cultural History of American Communities. (3). Cultural historic interpretation of formation, development and transformation of diverse community life-patterns in America; emphasis on analysis of community as it reflects change in settlement patterns, kinship networks, political, religious, economic and value systems in American society. [G]. 3300. The Ascent to Civilization. (3). (Same as HIST 3300). Interdisciplinary integrative examination of nature of civilization through investigation of origins of civilization and comparative study of world's earliest civilizations. PREREQUISITE: 9 hours of anthropology and/or history including either ANTH 1100 or HIST 1301. [I] 3332. Archaeology of Latin America. (3). Description and distribution of prehistoric cultural remains in South America and Mesoamerica, with emphasis on Mexico and Peru. 3342. Archaeology of Africa. (3). Description and distribution of archaeological remains in Africa; major regional sequences, extending from earliest evidences of human occupation until historic times. Emphasis on cultural achievements of pre-colonial Africa. 3351. Archaeology of Europe and Asia. (3). European and Asian cultures from first humans to early civilizations. 3511. Culture, Kin and Family. (3). Changing structure of family in Western and non-Western societies; cross-cultural approaches to mate selection, courtship rituals, kinship organization, institution of marriage, division of labor and authority in household, and childbearing; variation and flexibility in family structures as adaptive strategies for environmental, social and cultural change.3711. Culture and Technology. (3). Anthropological survey of development of technology and its impact on organization of industry and work from prehistoric through post-industrial societies. Consideration of such current issues as public control of technology, labor market segmentation, and quality of working life, in context of comparative analysis of both pre-industrial and industrial societies. 3721. Peasants in the World Economy. (3). Cross - cultural survey of state and global societies as they influence peasants in different regions; technological, environmental, economic, political and interpersonal factors shaping peasant livelihood, social organization, culture and worldview; national and international forces of change in relation to role of anthropology in development. 4051-6051. Anthropology and Education. (3). Advanced study of cultural transmission process with emphasis on identifying differing behavioral, cognitive and learning styles of various ethnic groups within American society and selected third world countries. Encounters of U.S. subcultural groups with public education system. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4065-6065. Contemporary Anthropological Theory. (3). Contemporary growth of theories and methods In anthropology. 4111-6111 . Human Adaptations. (3). Human populations and their variability, examination of human adaptations in locomotion and manipulation, facial structure, brain and language, and reproduction; comparisons to anatomy, physiology, and behavior of other primates. 4251-6251. Psychological Anthropology. (3). (4751). Comparison of factors involved in analysis of personality as contrasted to culture; interaction of these factors; problems of studying personality cross-culturally. 4252-6252. Economic Anthropology. (3). Comparative analysis of economic systems and their functional relationships to other cultural institutions; production, distribution, and consumption; concepts of wealth, value, property, and ownership. 4253-6253. Anthropology of Religion. (3). Comparative analysis of religious systems and their functional relationships to other cultural institutions; interrelations of myth, magic, and ritual; types of religious institutions and religious practitioners. 4255-6255. Applied Anthropology and Development. (3). Cross-cultural review of processes of change, grassroots development and planning in the industrialized world, models of change, specializations in applied anthropology, and development of public policy on international issues of housing, education, health and economic development. 4260. Field Problems in Research. (3). Application of social science knowledge and methods to research projects in local community or region; development of individual projects according to student's concentration, or work in cooperation with social and human services agencies and other community organizations. 4301-6301. Archaeology of North America. (3). (3331). Description and distribution of prehistoric cultural remains in North America and MesoAmerica. Major regional sequences, extending from the earliest evidences of human occupation until historic times.4325-6325. Archaeological Field Techniques. (3). Instruction in field excavation, specimen preparation, use of survey instruments and photography, map making, archaeological record keeping. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4326-6326. Archaeological Laboratory Analysis. (3). Methods and techniques of archaeology laboratory; emphasis on preparation of artifacts and records for interpretation and curation. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4330-39-6330-39. Special Topics in Archaeology. (3). Analysis of selected topics in archaeology. May be repeated for maximum of six hours credit. 4360-6360. Environmental Reconstruction. (3). Advanced study of cultural ecology in past environmental regimes. Emphasis on interdisciplinary approach to extinct social systems and their relationship with environment. 4370-6370. Historic Archaeology. (3). Review of contributions of archaeologists to historical research. Methods and techniques of archaeologists as required and modified by excavation and interpretation of historic materials. Allied specialties unique to Historic Archaeology including documentary investigations and conservation and restoration of existing structures. 4380-6380. Museums in Society. (3). (Same as ART 4380). History of museums and how they function in society. Development of major collections and role of museums as centers of research and education and as interpreters of social values. 4382-6382. Professional Practices In Museums. (3). (Same as ART 4382). Basic aspects of museum organization. Roles of director and trustees; responsibilities of professional staff including registrars and curators; and scope of museum education programs. Features presentations by museum professionals. [W]. 4411-6411. Urban Anthropology. (3). Anthropological studies of pre-industrial and industrial cities. Urbanization, movements of social transformation and other processes of adjustment to urban milieu. Urban slums, ethnic enclaves and housing developments in cross-cultural perspective. Urban kinship and social organization. Urban community development. Urban research techniques. 4412-6412. Neighborhood Development & Poverty. (3). Role of various institutions and their relationship to developmental needs of inner-city neighborhoods. Evolution of American cities as context for understanding urban neighborhoods and poverty. Particular attention to role of government and foundations in shaping policy at local level. Rise of neighborhood associations and non-profits as extensions of family values. Role of anthropologist in contributing to better understanding of neighborhoods and various intervention strategies particularly in the Mid-South. 4420-6420. American Folklore. (3). Selected genres of American folklore, including folk religion and belief, folk medicine, folksong and music, narrative and humor (jokes and riddles). Comparisons to other cultures. Emphasis on role of folklore in maintenance of tradition, in social change, and in concept of culture. 4511-6511. Medical Anthropology. (3). Cross - cultural analysis of bio-behavioral components of infectious, nutritional, genetic, chronic and psychiatric diseases. Individual and cultural reactions to medical care, professionals and health care delivery systems. 4521-6521. Folk Medicine In the U.S. (3). Medical alternatives to standard health care system. Concepts of illness associated with such practices as use of medicinal plants, faith healing, chiropractic. Clinical effectiveness of folk herbal medicine and psychotherapy. Health professional's role in caring for persons with different perceptions of health and disease emphasized. 4531-6531. Alcohol, Culture, and Biology. (3). Cross-cultural comparison of beliefs, rituals, meaning of alcohol consumption and alcoholism. Examination of biological and cultural evidence for development of alcohol related problems. Implications for prevention, early intervention, and treatment. 4541-6541. Nutritional Anthropology. (3). Human nutrition in cross-cultural perspective. Basic nutritional requirements. Interrelations of dietary behavior with resource availability and with cultural attitudes regarding nutritive and health values for foods. Dietary aspects of acculturation and culture change. Methodology in assessment of nutritional status and nutritional insufficiencies. Exemplary case studies. 4551-6551. Culture and Childbirth. (3). Review of biological, environmental, social and cultural factors influencing human reproduction; individual, community and clinical approaches to fertility, birth control, pregnancy, birth and post-partum care; alternative delivery systems. 4561-6561. Cultural Context of Deviant Behavior. (3). Reviews perceptions of normality in different societies, cultural definitions of and responses to deviance, promotion and discouragement of inappropriate behavior; evaluates mental illness, violence, drug abuse, cannibalism, suicide, sexual practices and everyday behavior in relation to cultural definitions of normality. 4975. Directed Individual Readings. (1-4). Intensive guided survey of anthropological and related literature dealing with topics selected by advanced students and accepted by staff. Compilation, synthesis, and evaluation of published data; preparation for students considering anthropology as a profession. PREREQUISITE: permission of chair and designated staff. 4985. Directed Individual Research. (1-3). Intensive guided survey of original data, in areas selected by advanced students and accepted by staff. Collection and/or processing of data in physical anthropology, ethnology, applied and urban anthropology, The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]archaeology, and linguistics; description, classification, analysis, and synthesis. Preparation for publication. PREREQUISITE: permission of chair and designated staff. 4990-99. Special Topics in Anthropology. (3). May be repeated for credit when topic varies. BIOLOGYPROFESSOR MELVIN L. BECK, Chair Room 103, Ellington Building ADVANCED PLACEMENT Beginning freshmen who have completed an advanced biology course in high school may apply to the chair of the Department of Biology during the semester preceding enrollment for advanced placement. BIOLOGY (BIOL) 1051. A Human Perspective I. (3). (1101). A study of the biosphere and structure and function of its plants and animals. NOTE: Credit will not apply toward a major or minor in the sciences, nor will it satisfy any part of science requirements in pre-professional curricula. Three lecture hours per week. [G]. 1052. A Human Perspective Laboratory I. (1). (1101 lab). Laboratory observations, demonstrations and experiments designed to apply scientific methods to lecture subjects. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 1051. [G]. 1061. A Human Perspective II. (3). (1102). Continuation of study of our biosphere with emphasis on organisms and continuity and diversity of species. NOTE: Credit will not apply toward a major or minor in the sciences, not will it satisfy any part of science requirements in pre-professional curricula. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1051. [G]. 1062. A Human Perspective Laboratory II. (1). (1102 lab). Laboratory observations, demonstrations and experiments designed to apply scientific methods to lecture subjects. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 1061. [G]. 1110. Introduction to Toxicology. (2). Survey of field of toxicology. Examination of multidisciplinary aspects of toxicology. Two lecture hours per week. 1151. General Biology I. (3). (1111). Unifying principles of biology with emphasis on cell structure, cell function, heredity, development and evolution. Three lecture hours per week. [G]. 1152. General Biology Laboratory I. (1). (1111 lab). Laboratory observations, demonstrations and experiments designed to apply scientific methods to lecture subjects. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 1151. [G]. 1161. General Biology II. (3). (1112). Continuation of BIOL 1151 with emphasis on origin and diversity of life; structure, functions, and ecology of organisms. Three lecture hours per week. [G]. 1162. General Biology Laboratory II. (1). (1112 lab). Laboratory observations, demonstrations and experiments designed to apply scientific methods to lecture subjects. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 1161. [G]. 1451. Microbiology. (3). (1400). Microorganisms and their basic characteristics with emphasis on relationship to pathogenesis and disease prevention. Credit not acceptable for Biology major or minor. Three lecture hours per week. 1452. Microbiology Laboratory. (1). (1400 lab). Laboratory observations, demonstrations and experiments designed to apply scientific methods to lecture subjects. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 1451. 1751. Anatomy and Physiology I. (3). (1731). Detailed study of structure and functions of human organism. Credit not acceptable for Biology major or minor. Three lecture hours per week. 1752. Anatomy and Physiology Laboratory I. (1). (1731 lab). Laboratory observations, demonstrations and experiments designed to apply scientific methods to lecture subjects. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 1751.1761. Anatomy and Physiology II. (3). (1732). Continuation of BIOL 1751. Credit not acceptable for Biology major or minor. Three lecture hours per week. 1762. Anatomy and Physiology Laboratory II. (1). (1732 lab). Laboratory observations, demonstrations and experiments designed to apply scientific methods to lecture subjects. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 1761. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]3030. Principles of Animal Physiology. (4). Basic concepts of animal function, including study of many invertebrate phyla and most classes of vertebrate organisms. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: 8 hours of animal biology or equivalent and COREQUISITE: CHEM 3311. 3050. General Ecology. (4). Relationships between organisms and their environment; emphasis on fundamental principles. Topics include: nutrient cycles limiting factors, population dynamics, community succession and structure, species interactions, and human ecology. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. [C]. 3071. Human Genetics. (3). Genetic principles as they apply to humans, including pedigree analysis, genetic counseling, genetic engineering, and eugenics. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1161, 1162 or permission of the instructor. 3072. Genetics. (3). (3070). Principles of heredity, including classical, microbial, molecular, and population genetics. Three lecture hours per week. Credit for both 3072 and 3073 must be earned to improve grade in 3070. PREREQUISITE: 16 hours of BIOL courses, including BIOL 3555. [C, I]. 3073. Genetics Laboratory. (1). (3070 lab). Laboratory experiments in classical, microbial, molecular, and population genetics designed to illustrate principles of heredity. Three laboratory hours per week. Credit for both 3072 and 3073 must be earned to improve grade in 3070. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 3072 or equivalent. 3130. Cell Biology. (3). Introduction to principles of cell and molecular biology as they relate to eukaryotic cells with emphasis on functions common to all or most cell types. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 1132. 3170. Heredity. (3). Principles of heredity with applications to human problems, for non-science majors and recommended for students who desire a better understanding of heredity and eugenics. Not acceptable as credit toward biology major or minor. 3200. General Botany. (4). Structure, function and diversity of plants. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. 3220. General Plant Anatomy. (4). Comparative development and structure of roots, stems, and leaves in flowering plants. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3200 or consent of instructor. 3230. Plant Physiology. (4). (4232). Principles of physiology and application to living organisms; emphasis on higher plants. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. 3440. Pathophysiology. (3). Effects of pathogenic organism upon human body and abnormalities in physiological processes occurring during disease. (Primarily for nursing students.) 3551. General Microbiology. (3). (3500). Fundamentals of bacteriology. Three lecture hours per week. 3555. Cell and Microbiology Laboratory. (2). (3500 lab). Laboratory observations, demonstrations, and experiments designed to apply scientific methods to lecture subjects. Four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 3551 or BIOL 3130. 3560. Applied Microbiology. (4). Introduction to microbiology of water, soil, air, food, sewage, industrial processes, and pathogens. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3551/3555 or equivalent. 3610. Vertebrate Embryology. (4). Development of selected vertebrate embryos from fertilized egg cell. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. 3620. Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates. (5). Origin, development, structure, and functions of organs and systems of selected forms of vertebrates. Two lecture, six laboratory hours per week. 3730. Human Physiology. (4). Normal functions of human body. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. 3751. Vertebrate Zoology. (2). (3700). Life histories, adaptations, ecology, distribution, behavior, and classification of vertebrates. Two lecture hours per week. 3752. Vertebrate Zoology Laboratory. (2). (3700 lab). Laboratory observations, demonstrations, and experiments designed to apply scientific methods to lecture subjects. Four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 3751. 3800. Parasitology. (4). Distribution, morphology, life history, economic importance, and control of some of parasites of man and domestic animals. Protozoa through helminths. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. 3900. General Entomology. (4). Introduction to insects with emphasis on morphology, physiology, development, behavior, and ecology. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. 3960. Medical Entomology. (4). Distribution, morphology, life history, medical importance, and control of insects and other The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]arthropods that serve as vectors for disease-producing organisms. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. 4000. Research. (1-4). Consultation, reading, and laboratory or field work to investigate selected area of biology under supervision of faculty member; formal paper is required. May be repeated for maximum credit of 4 hours. (S/U). [W]. 4002-6002. Toxicology. (3). Effects of foreign substances on biological mechanisms. Absorption, excretion, metabolism, and biotransformation of potentially harmful substances. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: A course in physiology and CHEM 3312. 4050-6050. Field Technique In Ecology. (4). Field techniques of applied ecology covering practical training in forest, field, aquatic, and atmospheric sampling and analysis. Extended field trips. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. 4055-6055. Ecological and Environmental Issues. (3). Ecological perspective on current environmental issues such as conservation and biodiversity, global climatic change, regulation of chemicals in environment. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3050 or consent of instructor. 4060-6060. Limnology. (4). Physical and chemical attributes of lakes, ponds, and streams; organisms of fresh water, problems of production, practical training in limnological methods and identification of organisms. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1161,1162 and one year of chemistry. 4090-99. Special Topics in Biology. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. May be repeated with different topics for maximum of 4 hours. PREREQUISITE: junior standing and permission of instructor. 4100-6100. Evolution. (3). Synthesis of principles and concepts of modern evolutionary theory. Topics include geologic evolution, biological evaluation, and evolution of societies. Emphasis on recent development and current controversies. Three lecture hours per week.4150-6150. Developmental Biology. (3). (4151). Introduction to study of developing biological systems at cellular and molecular level. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 3072, 3073, CHEM 3312. 4152-6152. Developmental Biology Laboratory. (2). (4151 lab). Introduction to laboratory study of developing biological systems at cellular and molecular level. Four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE BIOL. 4150 or 6150. 4430. Microbial Physiology and Genetics. (4). Introduction to Prokaryotic Physiology and Genetics. Topics include transformation, transduction, conjugation, plasmids, transposons, metabolic regulation and their relationships to bacterial growth. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3551/3555 or equivalent. 4440-6440. Pathogenic Microbiology. (4). Survey primarily of pathogenic bacteria, diseases they cause and methods of diagnosis; introduction to immunological principles and immunity. Considerable attention to laboratory methods used for identification of pathogenic bacteria. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3551/3555, with organic chemistry.4445-6445. Immunology. (3). (4444). Antigens, immunoglobulin classes, cells and cytokines of immune response, complement system, hypersensitivities, blood groups, vaccines and immunity. Three lecture hours per week. Credit for both 4445 and 4446 must be earned to improve grade for 4444. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 3551/3555 and CHEM 3311. 4446-6446. Immunology Laboratory. (2). (4444 lab). Methods and exercises that emphasize reactions of antigens and antibodies, immunochemical techniques, cellular immunology and the immune system. Four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 4445. 4450-6450. Microbial Ecology. (3). Roles of microorganisms in the environment. Microbial processes, interactions with the environment and biota, population ecology, community ecology, and biodegradation. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3551/3555, 4511 and 4512, or consent of instructor. 4470-6470. Molecular Genetics. (4). Structure, functions and replication of DNA, recombination, colinearity of DNA with genetic map, mutagenesis, gene transfer, plasmids, code, protein synthesis, suppression, regulation of gene expression, and genetic engineering. For students without formal training in molecular genetics. Four lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3500. 4475-6475. Recombinant DNA Techniques. (4). Laboratory with both theory and application of recombinant DNA techniques. Eight laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Consent of instructor and BIOL 4470-6470 or equivalent. 4501. Virology. (3). Introductory study of viruses and methods of their cultivation, isolation and characterization. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3551/3555. 4503-6503. Biochemistry Laboratory I. (1). (Same as CHEM 4501-6501). Investigation of physical and chemical properties of compounds of biological interest by common laboratory techniques. Assay of enzymes and enzyme kinetics stressed. Three The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CHEM 3302 OR 3303 AND 3312. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: BIOL 4511. 4504-6504. Biochemistry Laboratory II. (1). (Same as CHEM 4502-6502). Biochemical laboratory techniques; emphasis of fractionating biological samples and measuring metabolic activity. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 4511. 4511-6511. Biochemistry I. (3). (Same as CHEM 4511-6511). Chemistry of amino acids and proteins related to their properties in biochemical systems. Enzymology, including kinetics and conformation studies. Coenzymes and their functions. Chemistry of carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleotides. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3312. COREQUISITE: BIOL 4503 recommended.4512-6512. Biochemistry II. (3). (Same as CHEM 4512-6512). Metabolism of carbohydrates, amino acids and nucleotides. Biochemistry of DNA and RNA, including their relationship to biosynthesis of proteins. Metabolic control. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 4511. 4560-6560. Microbiology of Foods. (4). Microorganisms in natural and processed foods; origins, nature, and effects on foods; enumeration, and relation to health. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3551/3555 or consent of instructor.4570. Practicum In Biology. (1-4). Directed extradepartmental studies in special areas of biology. A maximum of four hours credit may be applied toward degree requirements. PREREQUISITES: major in biology and permission of advisor. (S/U). 4604-6604. Ethology and Behavioral Ecology. (4). Animal behavior, primarily from ecological and evolutionary perspective. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1161, 1162; or equivalent. 4620-6620. Vertebrate Histology. (4). Microscopic study of normal tissues and organs of vertebrate body. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3610 or 3620 or permission of instructor. 4630-6630. General Endocrinology. (3). Anatomy and physiology of the organs of internal secretion; role of hormones in metabolism and development. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3730. 4640-6640. Ornithology. (4). Biology of birds, with emphasis on avian anatomy, physiology, behavior, and reproductive biology. Field trips emphasize identification of local species and techniques of field study. Two lecture, four field/laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1161, 1162. 4644-6644. Ichthyology. (4). Collection, preservation, identification, life histories, management, and economic importance of fishes. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 1161,1162. 4651-6651. Field Techniques of Vertebrate Zoology. (4-6). Techniques in field study of vertebrates. Extended field studies outside local area. 4740-6740. Mammalogy. (4). Classification, distribution, life histories, economic importance, techniques of field study, methods of collection and preservation of mammals. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3700. 4744-6744. Herpetology. (4). Classification, distribution, life histories, techniques of collection and preservation, and natural habitats of North American reptiles and amphibians. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: BIOL 3620 or 3700 or permission of instructor. 4820-6820. Protozoology. (4). Free living and parasitic protozoa; consideration to structure, function, taxonomy, habitat, and life history. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. 4840-6840. Invertebrate Zoology. (4). Invertebrate phyla with emphasis on phylogeny, embryology, and ecology of selected groups. Extended field trip. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. 4930-6930. Insect Physiology. (4). Physiology as applied to life processes of insects. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. The following courses are taught only at the Gulf Coast Research Lab, Ocean Springs, Mississippi. The University of Memphis residence credit is given through affiliation with the laboratory. 4010-6010. Aquaculture. (6). Review of technology, principles, and problems relating to the science of aquaculture with emphasis on culture of marine species. PREREQUISITES: 16 hours of zoology including invertebrate and vertebrate zoology or ichthyology.4020-6020. Comparative Histology of Marine Organisms. (1-6). Histological organization of representative marine organisms. Fixation, processing, and study of tissues using light microscopy, transmission and scanning electron microscopy. Structural changes and physiological changes during life cycle of organism including histopathology. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4051-6051. Marine Ecology. (5). Relationship of marine organisms to environment includes effects of temperature, salinity, light, nutrient concentration, currents, food, predation and competition on the abundance and distribution of marine organisms. PREREQUISITES: 16 hours of biology including general zoology, general botany, and invertebrate zoology. 4052-6052. Salt Marsh Plant Ecology. (4). Emphasis on botanical aspects of local marshes; includes plant identification, composition, structure, distribution and development of coastal marshes. Biological and physical interrelationships. Primary productivity and relation of marshes to estuaries and associated fauna. PREREQUISITES: general botany, plant taxonomy, plant physiology, and general ecology or consent of instructor. 4200-6200. Marine Botany. (4). Local examples of principal groups of marine algae and maritime flowering plants, treating structure, reproduction, distribution, identification and ecology. PREREQUISITES: ten hours of biology, including introductory botany. 4300-6300. Coastal Vegetation. (3). General and specific aspects of coastal vegetation; emphasis on local examples. PREREQUISITES: 10 hours of biology including general botany. 4500-6500. Marine Microbiology. (5). Role of microorganisms in overall ecology of oceans and estuaries. PREREQUISITES: general microbiology and environmental microbiology or consent of instructor. 4600-6600. Marine Vertebrate Zoology and Ichthyology. (6). Marine Chordata, including lower groups of mammals and birds; emphasis on fishes. PREREQUISITES: sixteen semester hours of zoology including comparative anatomy or consent of instructor.4610-6610. Early Life History of Marine Fishes. (4). Reproductive strategies and developmental processes of marine fishes. Temporal and spatial distribution patterns, population dynamics, and ecological interactions of fish eggs and larvae. Methods of sampling and identifying eggs and larvae. PREREQUISITES: ichthyology, fisheries biology, ecology, and/or consent of instructor. 4646-6646. Marine Fisheries Management. (4). Overview of practical marine fishery management problems. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. 4700-6700. Behavior and Neurobiology of Marine Animals. (4). Behavior, neuroanatomy, and neurophysiology of marine animals with emphasis on neural mechanisms underlying behavior of selected invertebrates, fishes, birds and mammals. PREREQUISITES: 16 hours of zoology and/or psychology or consent of instructor. 4800-6800. Marine Invertebrate Zoology. (6). Important free-living, marine estuarine invertebrates of the Mississippi Sound and adjacent continental shelf of the northeastern Gulf of Mexico, emphasis on structure, classification, phylogenic relationships, larval development and functional processes. PREREQUISITES: 16 hours of zoology including introductory invertebrate zoology. 4844-6844. Parasites of Marine Animals. (6). Parasites of marine animals; emphasis on morphology, taxonomy, life histories and host-parasite relationships. Lecture, laboratory and field work included. PREREQUISITES: general parasitology or consent of instructor.4850-6850. Fauna and Faunistic Ecology of Tidal Marshes. (4). Survey and discussion of taxonomy, distribution, trophic relationships, reproductive strategies and adaptation of tidal marsh animals; emphasis on those occurring in northern Gulf marshes. PREREQUISITES: 16 hours of biology and junior standing or consent of instructor. CHEMISTRYASSOCIATE PROFESSOR HENRY KURTZ, Chair Room 210, J. M. Smith Hall The Department of Chemistry offers courses leading to the B.S. degree with a major in chemistry. The department also offers a program culminating in the professional degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (B.S.Ch.). This program is designed to meet the requirements of the Committee on Professional Training of the American Chemical Society, and is undertaken primarily by students who desire to go directly to positions in the chemical industry, or to enroll for postgraduate study in chemistry. SEQUENCE OF COURSES Students who present credit for at least two years of high school mathematics (including algebra), or who have an ACT mathematics score of 22 or better, should enroll in CHEM 1121, 1131 if they plan to take more than one year of college chemistry, or plan to major in either a natural science or in civil, mechanical, or electrical engineering. CHEM 1100 is a one-semester course for students of limited preparation in mathematics whose curriculum calls for the CHEM 1121/1131-1122/1132 sequence. CHEM 1101-1102 is a two-semester sequence for students interested in the science of chemistry, but is not credited toward a major in chemistry or physics. It does fulfill the university science requirements of other majors. Credit may not be received for both CHEM 1100 and CHEM 1131 simultaneously. These courses emphasize fundamental principles and concepts and are designed for nonscience majors The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]interested in a study of several areas of physical science. GENERAL EDUCATION NATURAL SCIENCE REQUIREMENTS Completion of the following 8-credit hour sequences will satisfy one of the options for the General Education Natural Science requirement: CHEM 1101 (4)/1102(4) OR CHEM 1121(1)/1131(3)/ 1122(1)/1132(3). ADVANCED PLACEMENT Beginning students who have had previous high school training in chemistry are invited to apply for advanced placement.LABORATORY SAFETY AND COURSE REQUIREMENTS Laboratory safety is strictly practiced in the Department of Chemistry. Approved eye protection must be worn as required in all chemical laboratories. In addition, to ensure that students enrolled in laboratory courses learn the necessary safety information to safely participate in the laboratory course, all prerequisites and/or corequisites for all laboratory courses are strictly enforced. As a result, when a student enrolls in a laboratory course without prior completion of the necessary prerequisite or corequisite, the student will be dropped from the laboratory course. In addition, when a student simultaneously enrolls in a laboratory course and corequisite course, but subsequently drops or discontinues the corequisite course, the student will be dropped from the laboratory course. In the event any student fails to comply with any safety requirements of the Department of Chemistry, the department has the right to not allow the student to perform laboratory work, or to withdraw the student from the laboratory course, as appropriate. CHEMISTRY (CHEM) 1100. Introduction to Chemistry. (3). For students whose curriculum requires CHEM 1131, but who feel their background is inadequate. Emphasis on scientific calculations and properties of matter. Three lecture hours per week. Not credited toward major in chemistry, physics, physical science, or engineering, nor does it satisfy any part of science requirement for any degree. Not applicable toward fulfilling 132-hour minimum for degrees in The College of Arts and Sciences. COREQUISITE: MATH 1211 or 1212 recommended.1101. College Chemistry I. (4). (1051). Fundamental laws of chemistry and impact of chemistry on modern society. Prior knowledge of algebra needed. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. Not credited toward major in chemistry or physics. [G].1102. College Chemistry II. (4). (1052). Emphasis on elementary organic and biochemistry. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. Not credited toward major in chemistry or physics. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 1101. [G]. 1121. Principles of Chemistry Laboratory. (1). (1111 lab). Experiments and experimental techniques in general chemistry. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: CHEM 1131. [G]. 1122. Principles of Chemistry Laboratory. (1). (1112 lab). Continuation of CHEM 1121. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: CHEM 1132. [G]. 1131. Principles of Chemistry. (3). (1111). For students who are majoring in one of the physical sciences, biology, mathematics or engineering, or who are following a pre-professional program requiring additional chemistry. Three lecture hours per week. COREQUISITES: MATH 1211, 1212 or 1321; CHEM 1121 recommended. [G]. 1132. Principles of Chemistry. (3). (1112). Continuation of CHEM 1131. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 1131. COREQUISITE: 1122 recommended. [G]. 3201. Quantitative Chemical Analysis Laboratory. (2). Application of the techniques of quantitative analysis in areas described in CHEM 3211. Six laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: CHEM 3211. [C]. 3211. Quantitative Chemical Analysis. (2). Theory and practice of modern chemical analysis. Includes: acid-base, redox, and complex ion equilibria, separation methods, absorptiometry, flame spectroscopy, and electroanalytical methods. Two lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 1122, 1132. COREQUISITE: CHEM 3201 recommended. [C]. 3301. General Organic Chemistry Laboratory. (1). Emphasis on laboratory techniques as applied to synthesis and class reactions. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 1122, 1132. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: CHEM 3311. 3302. General Organic Chemistry Laboratory. (1). Continuation of CHEM 3301; emphasis on correlation of chemical behavior with structure. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CHEM 3311 and 3301. COREQUISITE or PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3312. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]3311. General Organic Chemistry. (3). Systematic study of preparations and properties of organic compounds, including interpretations based on modern theories of organic chemistry. Emphasis on aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons, their halogen derivatives, and alcohols. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 1132. 3312. General Organic Chemistry. (3). Continuation of CHEM 3311; emphasis on more important functional derivatives of aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3311. 3401. Elementary Physical Chemistry. (3). Abbreviated course in physical chemistry. Includes elementary thermodynamics, phase transitions, solution chemistry, electrochemistry, kinetics, colloidal and surface chemistry, and molecular polarity. Credit may be obtained either in this course or in 3411, but not both. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CHEM 3211 or 3311, PHYS 2002/2120 or 2004/2520. 3402. Physical Chemistry Laboratory. (2). Measurements of physical properties, reaction rates, and equilibria. Application of electrochemistry and calorimetry. Six laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3411. COREQUISITE or PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3412. 3411. Physical Chemistry. (3). Thermochemical foundations of physical chemistry applied to open and closed systems, kinetic theory of gases, and surface chemistry. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: PHYS 2002/2120 or 2004/2520; MATH 2321.3412. Physical Chemistry. (3). Continuation of CHEM 3411 emphasizing kinetics of chemical reactions, quantum chemistry, chemical bonding, statistical mechanics, spectroscopy, and other methods of structure determination. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3411. 4001-6001. Environmental Chemistry. (3). Chemical phenomena occurring in soil, atmospheric and aquatic environments; consideration of natural resources and energy. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3311. 4101-6101. Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory. (1). Experimental techniques of inorganic synthesis and physical methods for characterization of inorganic and organometallic compounds. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: CHEM 4111-6111. 4111-6111. Inorganic Chemistry. (3). Theoretical and applied inorganic chemistry. Stress on relationship of structure and bonding to properties of elements and compounds. Includes introductory molecular orbital theory, coordination compounds and organometallics, ligand field theory, nonaqueous solvent systems, and reaction mechanisms. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3412 or permission of the instructor. COREQUISITE: CHEM 4101 recommended. 4180-99-6180-99. Special Topics In Inorganic Chemistry. (1-3). Topics in inorganic chemistry that are of current interest. Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3312 and permission of instructor. 4220-6220. Advanced Instrumental Analysis. (4). Advanced topics in electrochemical, spectroscopic, and chromatographic methods, and an introduction to electronic and optical principles of chemical instrumentation. Two lecture, six laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CHEM 3201, 3211, and 3412. 4280-99-6280-99. Special Topics In Analytical Chemistry. (1-3). Topics of current interest in analytical chemistry. Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3412 and permission of instructor. 4315-6315. Organic Medicinal Chemistry. (3). Introduction to principles of medicinal chemistry. Structure, synthesis, and biochemical mechanism of action of major drug classes. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3312. 4380-99-6380-99. Special Topics In Organic Chemistry. (1-3). Topics of current interest in organic chemistry. Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3312 and permission of instructor. 4480-99-6480-99. Special Topics In Physical Chemistry. (1-3). Topics of current interest in physical chemistry. Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3412 and permission of instructor. 4501-6501. Biochemistry Laboratory I. (1). (Same as BIOL 4503-6503). Investigation of physical and chemical properties of compounds of biological interest by common laboratory techniques. Assay of enzymes and enzyme kinetics stressed. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CHEM 3302 or 3303 and 3312. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: CHEM 4511. 4502-6502. Biochemistry Laboratory II. (1). (Same as BIOL 4504-6504). Biochemical laboratory techniques; emphasis on fractionating biological samples and measuring metabolic activity. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 4511. 4511-6511. Biochemistry I. (3). (Same as BIOL 4511-6511). Chemistry of amino acids and proteins related to their properties in biochemical systems. Enzymology, including kinetics and conformation studies. Coenzymes and their functions. Chemistry of carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleotides. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3312. COREQUISITE: CHEM 4501 recommended. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4512-6512. Biochemistry II. (3). (Same as BIOL 4512-6512). Continuation of CHEM 4511. Metabolism of carbohydrates, amino acids and nucleotides. Biochemistry of DNA and RNA, including their relationship to biosynthesis of proteins. Metabolic control. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 4511. 4580-99-6580-99. Special Topics In Biochemistry. (1-3). Topics of current interest in biochemistry. Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 4512 and permission of instructor. 4601-6601. Chemical Demonstrations. (3). Preparing and presenting demonstrations and activities to illustrate chemical principles, processes, and properties for secondary and post-secondary classes. One lecture/four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3302, CHEM 3312 or permission of instructor. 4602-6602. Teaching High School Chemistry Laboratory. (3). Instruction in selection, modification, evaluation, and teaching instructional chemistry experiments in high schools; includes planning pedagogical goals, laboratory organization and safety, purchasing supplies, and student evaluation. Two lecture/two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3302, CHEM 3312 or permission of instructor. 4604. Instrumental Methods. (3). (3604). Analytical instrumental techniques including molecular spectroscopy, chromatography, atomic spectroscopy, and electrochemical analysis. One lecture, six laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CHEM 3201, 3211, 3312, or permission of instructor. [I]. 4911-6911. Chemical Literature and Seminar. (1). Use of chemical literature, writing of technical reports, and oral presentation of investigative reports. One lecture hour per week. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4991. Chemical Research. (1). (See description under CHEM 4993.) 4992. Chemical Research. (2). (See description under CHEM 4993.) 4993. Chemical Research. (3). Introduction to basic research. Student collaborates with a faculty sponsor on problem of mutual interest selected from fields of analytical, inorganic, organic, and physical chemistry, and biochemistry. Experience in effective laboratory techniques, critical experiment design, and preparing a formal scientific paper. To receive credit toward a major in chemistry, student must complete three semester hours in these research courses. Three to nine laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 3312 and permission of instructor. Students expected to complete prospectus in consultation with a faculty sponsor before registering for this course. [W]. CRIMINOLOGY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE PROFESSOR JERRY R. SPARGER, Chair Room 405, Mitchell Hall A prerequisite for enrolling in all 3000 and 4000 level courses is U of M junior standing (55 semester hours). CRIMINOLOGY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE (CJUS) 1100. Introduction to Criminal Justice. (3). Introduction to American criminal justice system in its three dimensions: police, courts, and corrections, tracing its development from ancient and early English beginnings to present time. [G]. 2110. Comparative Justice Systems. (3). Overview of justice systems of various countries, focusing primarily on substantive and philosophical relationships between the subsystems and the society they serve. [G]. 2520. Street Law: A Course in Practical Law. (3). Practical application of law to everyday problems. Legal processes and resources available to every citizen; case materials in criminal, consumer, environmental, and family law with reference to their relationship in criminal justice context. Credit earned does not apply toward major or minor in Criminology and Criminal Justice. 3128. Research Methods In Criminal Justice. (3). Techniques commonly utilized in criminal justice research, emphasis on research design, methods of data collection, measurement of variables, and threats to validity and reliability; introduction to microcomputers. PREREQUISITE: COMP 1200 or equivalent. 3129. Statistical Methods In Criminal Justice. (3). Statistical methods commonly utilized in criminal justice research; emphasis on descriptive and inferential statistics, measures of significance, and interpretation of results; use of micro-computers and statistical programs for data collection and analysis. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: 3128 or permission of instructor. [C]. 3152. Drug Addiction and Alcoholism. (3). Cultural and medical aspects of use of alcohol and various other drugs; consideration of roles of law enforcement and corrections in these areas. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]3226. Police In America. (3). Comparative analysis of problems, procedures, organization, and functions of effective police organization.3326. Courts in America. (3). Exploration and analysis of structure, process, personnel, policy, and legal theory in the American judicial system. 3426. Corrections In America. (3). Concepts of organizational behavior applied to probation, parole, community-based corrections, prisons, and other detention facilities, with emphasis on their history and practice. 3510. Law and Society. (3). Law as system of control and as mechanism for resolution of conflict. Relationship of law to political, economic and social systems critically analyzed and development of legal profession studied. 3521. Constitutional Criminal Procedure. (3). General application of U.S. constitution principles to investigative and prosecutorial process of the criminal justice system; emphasis on requirements of the 4th, 5th, 6th, 8th, and 14th Amendments as they relate to arrest, search, and seizure, interrogation and identification procedures, trial and appellate proceedings. 3541. Criminology. (3). (Same as SOCI 3541). Nature and significance of criminality; etiology of illegal behavior; trends in social reactions to crime and criminals. Evolution of biological, psychological, and sociological theories of criminal behavior. 3542. Crime and Criminal Typologies. (3). (4120). Classification of crime and typical elements involved in each type of crime, classification of criminal offenders and salient career variables associated with each type of offender relative to background, crime, and career prognosis. 4010-19-6010-19. Special Topics In Criminal Justice. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4100. Individual Directed Study In Criminal Justice. (1-4). Individual directed reading and research in special areas of interest in field of criminal justice. PREREQUISITE: permission of department chair. NOTE: Course may be repeated for a maximum of 4 hours total credit. 4110. Senior Seminar in Criminal Justice. (3). Analysis of criminal justice issues from a systems perspective; emphasis on active learning, gaining familiarity with criminal justice resources, and development of analytical and writing skills. PREREQUISITE: senior standing in Criminology and Criminal Justice and permission of department chair. [W,I]. 4126. Criminal Justice Administration and Management. (3). Management philosophies for administration of criminal justice agencies; focus on organizational behavior, theories of management, planning and budgeting, administrative legal issues, and administrative problems unique to the criminal justice system. 4130. Ethical Dilemmas In Criminal Justice. (3). Legal, moral, and social implications of ethical dilemmas in criminal justice, including police use of deadly force, police discretion, victimless crimes, surveillance, enforcement of unpopular laws, use of informers, plea bargaining, judicial discretion, and capital punishment. Subcultural norms and dilemmas they present to criminal justice practitioner. 4150. Internship In Criminal Justice. (1-3). Experience in actual criminal justice setting; internship initiated by department in agency, and both department and agency supervise and direct student program. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: senior standing and/or approval of instructor. (S/U). 4160-6160. Forensic Sciences. (3). Forensic specialities in terms of their history, scientific rationale upon which each is based, and problems that may compromise accuracy or validity; introduction to field techniques and analysis of evidence. 4170. Prevention and Deterrence of Crime. (3). Theoretical and practical strategies for crime prevention and deterrence. Social, environmental, and mechanical developments. Police, courts, and correctional elements of criminal justice system analyzed in terms of current effectiveness and future potential for crime suppression. 4180-6180. Corporate and White-Collar Crime. (3). Organizational and occupational crime compared to other types of criminality. Emphasis on causes, frequency, control, and social impact. 4190-6190. Terrorism: Social and Legal Perspective. (3). Theoretical and ideological aspects of practice of and response to international and domestic terrorism. Terrorism as crime from political, social, economic, historical, and legal perspectives. 4233. Organized Crime. (3). Nature, structure, characteristics, and investigation of syndicated crime; its impact on social and economic conditions in this country. 4235. Private and Industrial Security. (3). Role and function of private police organizations and legal restrictions on private security personnel. Facets of private security to include retail, industrial and corporate security. 4520-6520. Substantive Criminal Law. (3). Substance of the crime, including common-law sources and basic principles, types of offenses, responsibility, justification and excuse, and related areas. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4530. Principles of Evidence and Proof. (3). Rules of evidence and matters of proof affecting criminal investigation in investigatory and prosecutive stages of criminal justice. Socio-legal aspect of basic rules of evidence, including hearsay rules, impeachment, materiality and relevancy, privilege, eyewitness identification. 4531-6531. Issues in Constitutional Rights. (3). Issues in constitutional law related to criminal defendants and incarcerees; exclusionary rule and its alternatives, application of 1st Amendment to criminal law, legal status of confined persons (discipline, legal services, communications, medical aid), and liability of correctional and police officials. Civil and criminal legal techniques for protecting and vindicating constitutional rights, such as habeas corpus and 42 USC 1983. 4533-6533. Juvenile Delinquency: Theory and Process. (3). Theories of juvenile delinquency, gang activities, and status offenses. History, organization programs and procedures of agencies charged with control and prevention of juvenile delinquency including police, juvenile units, juvenile court, and juvenile correctional agencies. ENGLISHPROFESSOR GUY BAILEY, Chair Room 467, Patterson Hall All candidates for graduation at The University of Memphis are required to complete ENGL 1101 and 1102 or their equivalents, with a grade of C or better. Before enrolling in ENGL 1101, a student must have either: (1) an ACT English score of 19 or above, or (2) an SAT verbal score of 360 or above, (3) a satisfactory score on the AAPP English Placement Essay administered by the Testing Center, or (4) completion of R&DS 0810 with a grade of C or better. Students admitted to the university through the Developmental Studies program must meet one of the following conditions before enrolling in ENGL 1101: (1) completion of R&DS 0810 with a grade of C or better, or (2) a satisfactory score on the English Placement portion of the AAPP Complete test administered by the Testing Center. After completing ENGL 1101 and 1102 with a grade of C or better, all students must take 2201 or 2202. Freshman and sophomore sequence must be scheduled until completed. ENGL 1101 and 1102 must be taken in sequence; no credit will be allowed for ENGL 1102 until 1101 has been completed with a grade of C or better. ENGLISH (ENGL) 0101. English as a Second Language. (1). Introduction to English Composition, concentration on composition skills; emphasis on sentence structure in written discourse. Open to non-native speakers of English only. Admission by placement only. (T grade allowed).0102. English as a Second Language (1-2). Intermediate Composition. Practice in process of writing English expository prose, specifically paragraphs and short essays; review of grammar and sentence structure needed for academic writing skills. Open to non-native speakers of English only. Admission by placement only. (T grade allowed). 0103. English as a Second Language (1-3). Advanced Composition, practice in expository writing of paragraphs and essays with emphasis on the writing process; extensive reading in fiction used to encourage writing skill acquisition. Open to non-native speakers of English only. Admission by placement only. (T grade allowed). NOTE: The accumulation of three credit hours from the above courses and successful completion of 0103 will be considered the equivalent of ENGL 1101. Not more than 3 hours credit may be accumulated in 0101, 0102, 0103. 1101. English Composition. (3). Practice in expository writing with emphasis on content, organization, and style (levels of usage and sentence structure) for different purposes and audiences. PREREQUISITE: R&DS 0810 with grade of C or better, or ACT English score of 19 or above, or SAT verbal score of 360 or above, or satisfactory completion of placement essay. [G]. 1102. English Composition and Analysis. (3). Practice in expository writing that synthesizes ideas from various readings. Includes library work and production of documented papers. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 1101 with a grade of C or better, or equivalent. [G].2201. Literary Heritage. (3). Major texts of literary heritage; modes of literary expression and cultural context; emphasis on works as products of their historical contexts and as processes shaping human consciousness. Composition and critical thinking beyond levels expected of freshmen. PREREQUISITES: ENGL 1101 and 1102, with a grade of C or better, or their equivalent. [G]. 2202. Literary Heritage: African-American Emphasis. (3). Consideration of major texts of literary heritage with emphasis on African-American culture. Modes of literary expression and cultural context. Emphasis on work as products of historical contexts and as processes shaping human consciousness. Composition and critical thinking beyond levels expected of freshmen. PREREQUISITES: ENGL 1101 and 1102, with a grade of C or better, or their equivalent. [G]. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]ENGL 1101, 1102, and 2201 or 2202 or equivalents are prerequisites for all upper division courses in the Department of English. 3100-09. Special Topics In Literature. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 3210. British Literature to 1798. (3). Concentration on major authors, themes, and movements. 3211. British Literature of the Medieval Period. (3). 3212. British Literature of the Sixteenth Century. (3). 3213. British Literature of the Seventeenth Century. (3). 3214. British Literature of the Restoration and Eighteenth Century. (3). 3220. British Literature since 1798. (3). Concentration on major authors, themes, and movements. 3221. British Literature of the Romantic Period. (3). 3222. British Literature of the Victorian Period. (3). 3224. British Literature of the Twentieth Century. (3). 3321. American Literature Before 1860. (3). 3322. American Literature from 1860 to World War I. (3). 3323. American Literature from World War I to Present. (3). 3411. European Litterature to Renaissance. (3). (4411).3412. European Literature since Renaissance. (3). (4412).3500. Practical English Grammar. (3). Extended study of the fundamentals of English grammar, sentence structure, usage, diction, punctuation, and spelling. May not apply to the English major or minor. 3501. Modern English Grammar. (3). Introduction to current grammatical theory. Description of sounds, word structures, syntax, and semantics of English within theoretical frameworks. 3511. Introduction to Linguistics. (3). Introduction to the nature and functions of human language, to its structural principles, and to its place in culture and society. Emphasis on language diversity and change through history and contact. Discussion of language and thought, origin of language, and other topics. 3521. The American Language. (3). Changing nature and variety of American English, especially in vocabulary and usage, its range--formal-informal, written-colloquial, and standard and dialectal variations; shifting standards of usage especially reflected in dictionaries; and appropriateness dependent upon context. Language as both reflector and shaper of thought. 3601. Technical and Professional Writing. (3). Introduction to rhetoric and style of documents written by scientists, engineers, technical writers, and other professionals. Extensive practice in writing reports, proposals, manuals, and correspondence. [W]. 3602. Writing and Editing in the Professions. (3). Workshop in techniques of communicating effectively in business, industry and government. Developing practical writing skills for technical publications such as reports, data analyses, and research articles. Editing practices involved in packaging and distributing professional writing in printed form. 3603. Engineering Communications. (3). Form and contexts of written and oral communications in engineering professions. Extensive practice in oral reporting, written reports, manuals, and proposals. May not apply to the English major or minor. 3604. Persuasive Writing. (3). (2602). Study and practice of writing essays and reports with emphasis on persuasion. Introduction to empirical and library research, application of rhetorical principles, and nature of evidence. Academic and professional writing, editing, and revision. [C,W]. 3605. Introduction to Creative Writing. (3). (2601). Introduction to the writing of fiction and poetry. [W]. 3701. Introduction to Literary Criticism. (3). 4001. Senior Honors Seminar I. (3). Intensive study of a problem in language or literature. Enrollment limited to English honors students. 4002. Senior Honors Seminar II. (3). Intensive study of a problem in language or literature. Enrollment limited to English The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]honors students. 4100-09. Special Topics In English. (3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4231. Chaucer. (3). 4232. Shakespeare's Tragedies. (3). 4233. Shakespeare's Comedies and Histories. (3). 4234. Milton. (3). 4241. British Novel Through Austen. (3). 4242. British Novel Since Scott. (3). 4251. British Drama To 1642. (3). 4252. British Drama Since 1660. (3). 4321. American Literature: Major Writers Before 1860. (3). 4322. American Literature: Major Writers Since 1860. (3). 4323. Southern Literature. (3). 4341. American Novel to 1900. (3). (3341).4342. American Novel Since 1900. (3). (3342).4371. African American Literature. (3). 4423. Modern British and American Poetry. (3). 4424. Modern British and American Fiction. (3). 4441. European Fiction. (3). Movements and writers important to development of continental fiction from late 18th century to present.4451. Studies in Women and Literature. (3). Literature and criticism by and about women. 4461. The Bible as Literature. (3). 4471. Art of Biography. (3). Reading, discussion, and practice of the literary construction of lives, one's own and others'. Examines authors' artistic strategies, motives, audience, and perspectives based on gender and culture. [W]. 4501. History of the English Language. (3). 4511. Language and Literature. (3). How linguistics can illuminate the analysis of literature, the nature of literary language, and the linguistic options open to a writer. [W]. 4521. Language and Society. (3). Place of language in society and how it creates and reflects social relationships. Geographical and social dialects, male/female differences, and language of various subgroups within our culture. Intensive examination of implications of language differences. [I]. 4530. Practicum in ESL. (3-6). Experience in observing and teaching, peer teaching, and work with an ESL specialist. Repeatable to a maximum of 6 hours. 4531. Methods and Techniques in ESL. (3). Methods and techniques of teaching English as a Second Language in various settings.4532. Skills Approaches and Assessment for ESL. (3). Approaches to evaluation and means of assessment of language skills, with special emphasis on English as a Second Language. [C]. 4540-4550. Special Topics in Language and Linguistics. (3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4601. Poetry Workshop. (3). The nature of poetry, critical approaches to the poem, and practical experience in writing and revising text. Repeatable to maximum of 6 hours with permission of instructor. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4602-6602. Advanced Composition (3). Principles involved in writing clear expository prose. Emphasis on application of these principles; analysis of readings and of student's writing. [W]. 4603. Fiction Workshop. (3). Nature of short story and longer forms of fiction, critical approaches to fiction, and practical experience in writing and revising text. Repeatable to maximum of 6 hours with permission of instructor. 4604. Forms of Poetry. (3). A study of metrics, forms, and types of poetry in English with attention to the principal traditions and critical ideas associated with the writing of verse in English. 4605. Forms of Fiction. (3). A study of how fiction works through analyzing the short story, the novella, and the novel with attention to technical developments. 4606-15. Topics In Advanced Technical Writing. (3). Theories, contexts, and practices of writing in the world of technology. Topics vary. Extensive practice in writing, editing, and preparing technical publications. 4616. The Publishing Process. (3). Steps in the publishing process from writing a manuscript to printing it, including the publishing of various genres throughout the world. 4617. Computers and Writing. (3). Impact of computers on writing process in academic, personal, creative, and professional writing. Extensive practice in using computer tools for invention, planning, drafting, revising, editing, and production. Students explore their own writing processes and effects of technology on those processes as they work through variety of individual and collaborative assignments. [W]. 4630. Internship in Professional Writing. (3). Experience in technical, scientific, legal, government, or business writing with a professional in the field. Dependent upon availability. PREREQUISITES: 3601 and 3602 (one of which may be completed concurrently) and permission of instructor. 4711. The Author, the Text, the Reader, and the World. (3). Methodological reflection upon theory and practice of reading linguistic, literary, and rhetorical models. PREREQUISITE: 15 hours of English. [I]. 4900. Independent Study. (1-3). A selected topic or problem in the field of literature, language, or writing. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. Repeatable when the content is different. 4996. Honors Thesis. (3). FOREIGN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES PROFESSOR RALPH ALBANESE JR., Chair Room 375A, Dunn Mathematics & Foreign Languages Building CLASSICS (CLAS) GREEK (GREK) LATIN (LATN) LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE (LALI) ARABIC (ARAB) CHINESE (CHIN) FRENCH (FREN) GERMAN (GERM) HEBREW (HEBR) ITALIAN (ITAL) JAPANESE (JAPN) RUSSIAN (RUSS) SPANISH (SPAN) All students who have not successfully completed first year language courses at an accredited institution of higher education and who wish to enroll in 2201 (Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Russian, Spanish) will be required to take the placement test given by the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures. Students presenting a language to meet university admission requirements cannot receive credit for 1101 in that language. For information about the dates and place of placement tests, contact the Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures (678- 2506).CLASSICS (CLAS) 2481. Mythology. (3). Thematic study of classical myths and their function in ancient literature. Emphasis on reading myths in ancient sources in translation. [G]. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]3021. Scientific Terminology. (3). Origin and derivation of words used in medicine and the sciences; emphasis on building of scientific vocabulary. 3412. Roman Culture. (3). Study based on literary sources, of public and private life including such topics as family life, slavery, religion, medicine, law, and technology. 3413. Greek Literature in Translation. (3). Reading and analysis of masterpieces of Greek literature in translation from Homer to Lucian. Emphasis on development of literary types. 3414. Roman Literature in Translation. (3). Reading and analysis of masterpieces of Roman literature in English translation from origins to close of Silver Age. Emphasis on genres of Roman literature. 4780. Individual Studies in Classics. (1-3). Directed individual study in selected areas of Classics chosen in consultation with instructor. Repeatable for a maximum of 6 semester hours credit by permission of chairman. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor.4791. Special Studies in Classics. (1-3). Topics in classical literature and civilization. May be repeated for maximum of six hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of chair and instructor. GREEK (GREK) 1101. Elementary Greek I. (3). Elements of grammar and syntax of classical and koine Greek; practice in reading and translation.1102. Elementary Greek II. (3). Continuation of grammar and syntax of classical and koine Greek; practice in reading and translation of both classical and New Testament Greek. PREREQUISITE: GREK 1101 or equivalent. 2201. Intermediate Greek I. (3). Comprehensive review of Greek grammar; practice in reading and translation of both classical and New Testament Greek. PREREQUISITE: GREK 1102 or equivalent. 2202. Intermediate Greek II. (3). Readings in unaltered classical and New Testament Greek. Emphasis on interpretive techniques used in reading primary texts. PREREQUISITE: GREK 2201 or equivalent. 3111. Greek Historians. (3). Reading and analysis of selections from writings of Herodotus, Thucydides, and later Greek historians.3511. Greek Tragedy. (3). Reading and analysis of selected tragedies of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides. 3911. Plato's Apology, Crito. (3). Reading and analysis of dialogues of Plato that give a prelude to death of Socrates. 4441. Homer. (3). Reading and analysis of selections from Homer's Iliad and Odyssey. LATIN (LATN) 1101. Elementary Latin. (3). Elements of grammar; practice in Latin composition and translation. 1102. Elementary Latin. (3). Completion of elementary Latin grammar, with additional readings. PREREQUISITE: LATN 1101 or equivalent college-level credit. 2201. Intermediate Latin. (3). Review of basic Latin grammar with reading selections from The Golden Fleece and Roman history. PREREQUISITE: LATN 1102 or the equivalent. 2202. Intermediate Latin. (3). More advanced readings from major authors. PREREQUISITE: LATN 2201 or equivalent. 3111. Roman Historians. (3). Readings and analysis of selections from Caesar, Livy, Tacitus, and Suetonius; emphasis on nature of Roman historiography. 3211. Vergil. (3). Reading and analysis of the Aeneid. 3912. Cicero. (3). Reading and analysis of De Amicitia and De Senectute. 4411. Roman Letter Writers. (3). Reading and analysis of Cicero's Letters. 4711. Elegy, Lyric, and Epigram. (3). Reading and analysis of selections from Catullus, Horace, Tibellus, Propertius, and Martial. LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE (LALI) The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]1701-1702. Special Studies in Foreign Languages. (3, 3). (LANG). Freshman-level instruction in languages not regularly offered by Department of Foreign Languages; offered if and when sufficient demand exists and instructors available. Although credit earned in these courses may be used to satisfy foreign language requirements for degrees, students should be aware of two important points: (1) foreign language requirement for degrees in College of Arts and Sciences specifies that all twelve semester hours (or six for some professional degrees) must be in same language; (2) unless demand is sufficient and unless teachers are available, the university cannot offer enough courses to enable student to meet these requirements. 2701-2702. Special Studies in Foreign Languages. (3, 3). (LANG). Continuation of LANG 1701-1702. Offered provided instructor is available and there is sufficient student enrollment. NOTE: With the exception of Literary Criticism 4890, LALI literature courses may not be used to satisfy any part of the foreign language requirement, nor do they apply toward a major or minor in any of the foreign languages. NOTE: Courses in Greek and Roman literature in translation and mythology are listed under Classics. 4010-19-6010-19. Special Topics in Foreign Literatures. (3). Topics vary and are announced in Schedule of Classes. 4441. Dante. (3). (Same as ITAL 4441). Study of the Vita Nuova and the Divina Commedia. PREREQUISITE: ITAL 2202 or permission of instructor. 4493. Contemporary French Literature. (3). (FREN 4493). Emphasis on widely translated, well-known works by major French writers; presented in English translation. 4780. Individual Studies in Language and Literature. (1-3). Directed individual study in selected areas of language or literature chosen in consultation with instructor. Repeatable for a maximum of 6 semester hours credit by permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4890. Literary Criticism. (3). Study of the history and theory of literary criticism from Antiquity to the present as exemplified by texts selected from various European and non-European literary traditions. [I]. ARABIC (ARAB) 1101. Elementary Arabic. (3). (LALI 1701002). Principles of pronunciation; everyday expressions; basic sentence patterns through oral practice, writing and reading. 1102. Elementary Arabic. (3). (LALI 1702002). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: ARAB 1101 or equivalent . 2201. Intermediate Arabic. (3). (LALI 2701002). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: ARAB 1102 or equivalent. 2202. Intermediate Arabic. (3). (LALI 2702002). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: ARAB 2201 or equivalent. CHINESE (CHIN) 1101. Elementary Chinese. (3) (LALI 1701003). Principles of pronunciation; everyday expressions; basic sentence patterns through oral practice, writing and reading. 1102. Elementary Chinese. (3). (LALI 1702003). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: CHIN 1101 or equivalent. 2201. Intermediate Chinese. (3). (LALI 2701003). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: CHIN 1102 or equivalent. 2202. Intermediate Chinese. (3). (LALI 2702003). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: CHIN 2201 or equivalent. 3301. Conversation and Composition. (3). Conversational practice dealing with various topics on social life, traveling, business. Fundamental Chinese grammar for reading and writing. PREREQUISITE: CHIN 2202 or equivalent. 3302. Conversation and Composition. (3). Conversational practice dealing with various topics on Chinese culture, life style, business, education, history, current issues. Grammar and slang for conversation and composition. PREREQUISITE: CHIN 3301 or equivalent.FRENCH (FREN) 0701-5701. French for Reading Knowledge I. (3). Introduction to reading French. Intensive drill in recognizing and The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]interpreting grammatical structures, especially those peculiar to scholarly written language. Emphasis on vocabulary building and on determining the meaning of words not previously encountered. Reading of texts in French at sight or after preparation. No previous knowledge of French required. Does not fulfill any part of undergraduate language requirement and cannot be applied toward major. (S/U). 0702-5702. French for Reading Knowledge II. (3). Further work in recognizing and interpreting grammatical structures. Reading of specialized scholarly texts. Does not fulfill any part of undergraduate language requirement and cannot be applied toward major. (S/U). 1101. Elementary French. (3). Basic skills fundamental to language proficiency and culture. 1102. Elementary French. (3). Further development of basic skills fundamental to language proficiency and culture. PREREQUISITE: FREN 1101 or equivalent. 2201. Intermediate French. (3). Comprehensive review of French grammar, exercises in writing, and readings in French literature and culture. PREREQUISITE: FREN 1102 or equivalent. 2202. Intermediate French. (3). More advanced readings. PREREQUISITE: FREN 2201 or equivalent. 3301. Conversation and Composition. (3). PREREQUISITE: FREN 2202 or equivalent. 3302. Conversation and Composition. (3). PREREQUISITE: FREN 3301 or permission of instructor. 3401. French Civilization. (3). Culture of France as reflected in its history, social institutions, art, and music. Recommended for Foreign Language, liberal arts, and International Business majors. PREREQUISITE RECOMMENDED: FREN 3301. 3411. Introduction to French Literature. (3). Selections from origins to present time. Emphasis on textual analysis. PREREQUISITE: FREN 3301. 3791. French for Commerce I. (3). Introduction to French business terminology and forms of correspondence with regular readings of business, commercial and technical publications. PREREQUISITE: FREN 3301 recommended. 3792. French for Commerce II. (3). Continuation of French 3791. PREREQUISITE: FREN 3791 or equivalent. 4301-6301. French Phonetics. (3). Theory and practice of French sounds, especially recommended for teachers of French. PREREQUISITE: three years of college French or permission of instructor. 4302-6302. Advanced Grammar. (3). Practical advanced grammar course concerned with grammatical, syntactical, and lexical usage of contemporary French. 4412-6412. Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries. (3). Classical theatre and critical theories; essay, nouvelle, and conte in 18th century. PREREQUISITE: FREN 3301. RECOMMENDED: FREN 3411. 4413-6413. Nineteenth Century French Literature. (3). Survey of literary movements and major authors with readings in all major genres. PREREQUISITE: FREN 3301. RECOMMENDED: FREN 3411. 4414-6414. Twentieth Century French Literature. (3). Survey of literary movements and major authors with readings in the novel, poetry and theater. PREREQUISITE: FREN 3301. RECOMMENDED: FREN 3411. 4780. Individual Studies in French. (1-3). Directed individual study in selected areas of French chosen in consultation with instructor. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4791-99. Special Topics in French Literature, Language, or Civilization. (3). May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of chair and instructor. GERMAN (GERM) 0701-5701. German or Reading Knowledge I. (3). Introduction to reading of German. Intensive drill in recognizing and interpreting grammatical structures, especially those peculiar to scholarly written language. Emphasis on vocabulary building and on determining meaning of words not previously encountered. Reading of texts in German at sight or after preparation. No previous knowledge of German required. Does not fulfill any part of undergraduate language requirement and cannot be applied toward major. (S/U). 0702-5702. German for Reading Knowledge II. (3). Further work in recognizing and interpreting grammatical structures. Reading of specialized scholarly texts. Does not fulfill any part of undergraduate language requirement and cannot be applied toward major. (S/U). The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]1101. Elementary German. (3). Basic skills fundamental to language proficiency and culture. 1102. Elementary German. (3). Further development of basic skills fundamental to language proficiency and culture. PREREQUISITE: GERM 1101 or equivalent. 2201. Intermediate German. (3). Comprehensive review of German grammar, exercises in writing and readings in German literature and culture. PREREQUISITE: GERM 1102 or equivalent. 2202. Intermediate German. (3). More advanced readings in German literature and culture. PREREQUISITE: GERM 2201 or equivalent.2203. Scientific German. (3). A continuation of 2201, with readings in science areas. PREREQUISITE: GERM 2201 or equivalent. 3301. Conversation and Composition. (3). PREREQUISITE: GERM 2202 or equivalent. 3302. Conversation and Composition. (3). PREREQUISITE: GERM 2202 or equivalent. 3411. Introduction to German Literature and Culture I. (3). From beginnings to late eighteenth century. PREREQUISITE: GERM 2202 or equivalent. 3412. Introduction to German Literature and Culture II. (3). From late eighteenth century to modern period. PREREQUISITE: GERM 2202 or equivalent. 3791. German for Commerce I. (3). German business terminology and forms of correspondence; regular readings of business, commercial and technical publications. PREREQUISITE: GERM 2202 or equivalent. 3792. German for Commerce II. (3). German business terminology and correspondence. Reading of business, technical, commercial publications. 4443-6443. Major German Writers of the Twentieth Century. (3). Selected works of Hesse, Thomas Mann, Kafka, Frisch, Duerrenmatt, Brecht, and Boell. PREREQUISITE: two courses from the group GERM 3301, 3302, 3411, 3412; or permission of instructor.4451-6451. The German Drama. (3). Survey of dramatic literature from sixteenth to twentieth centuries; readings from Reformation, Baroque, Enlightenment, Sturm und Drang, Classicism, Romanticism, Realism, and modern period. PREREQUISITES: two courses from the group GERM 3301, 3411, 3412; or permission of instructor. 4465. German Narrative Prose. (3). Reading of major prose writings from Romanticism to present. Emphasis on the Novelle. PREREQUISITES: one course from the group GERM 3301, 3302, 3410, 3411, 3412; or permission of instructor. 4501. Applied German Linguistics. (3). Application of modern linguistic theories to learning German. PREREQUISITES: Two courses from the group GERM 3301, 3411, 3412; or permission of instructor. 4511. The German Language: Development and Structure. (3). German language in its various stages of development. PREREQUISITE: GERM 3301 or 3302; or permission of instructor. 4780. Individual Studies in German. (1-3). Directed individual study in selected areas of German chosen in consultation with instructor. Repeatable for a maximum of 6 semester hours credit by permission of chair. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4791-99. Special Topics in German Language or Literature. (3). May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of chair and instructor. HEBREW (HEBR) 1101. Elementary Hebrew. (3). (LALI 1701004). Principles of pronunciation; everyday expressions; basic sentence patterns through oral practice, writing and reading. 1102. Elementary Hebrew. (3). (LALI 1702004). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: HEBR 1101 or equivalent. 2201. Intermediate Hebrew. (3). (LALI 2701004). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: HEBR 1102 or equivalent. 2202. Intermediate Hebrew. (3). (LALI 2702004). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: HEBR 2201 or equivalent. ITALIAN (ITAL) The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]1101. Elementary Italian I. (3). Basic skills fundamental to language proficiency and culture. 1102. Elementary Italian II. (3). Further development of basic skills fundamental to language proficiency and culture. PREREQUISITE: ITAL 1101 or equivalent. 2201. Intermediate Italian I. (3). Comprehensive review of basic grammar, exercises in conversation, writing, and cultural readings. PREREQUISITE: ITAL 1102 or equivalent. 2202. Intermediate Italian II. (3). Continued development of basic language skills through oral and written practice. PREREQUISITE: ITAL 2201 or equivalent. 3301. Conversation and Composition. (3). Development of oral proficiency and writing skills. PREREQUISITE: ITAL 2202 or equivalent.3411. Introduction to Italian Literature. (3). Survey of major literary works from the Middle Ages to the present. PREREQUISITE: ITAL 2202 or equivalent. 4441. Dante. (3) (Same as LALI 4441). Study of the Vita Nuova and the Divina Commedia. PREREQUISITE: ITAL 2202 or permission of instructor. JAPANESE (JAPN) 1101. Elementary Japanese I. (3). (LALI 1702005). Principles of pronunciation; everyday expressions; basic sentence patterns through oral practice, writing and reading using the Roman alphabet. 1102. Elementary Japanese II. (3). (LALI 1702005). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and (Romanized) written practice; the katakana and hiragana syllabaries. 2201. Intermediate Japanese I. (3). Continued study of sentence patterns through oral and written practice; introduction to the Japanese writing system, with approximately 250 kanji and their compounds in readings and written practice. 2202. Intermediate Japanese II. (3). Continued study of sentence patterns; conversation; additional kanji to a total of approximately 500; readings. RUSSIAN (RUSS) 1101. Elementary Russian I. (3). Introductory survey of Russian grammar and phonetics. 1102. Elementary Russian II. (3). Continuation of RUSS 1101. PREREQUISITE: RUSS 1101 or permission of instructor. 2201. Intermediate Russian I. (3). Comprehensive review of Russian grammar, exercises in spoken and written Russian. PREREQUISITE: RUSS 1102 or permission of instructor. 2202. Intermediate Russian II. (3). Continuation of RUSS 2201. PREREQUISITE: RUSS 2201 or permission of instructor. 3301. Russian Conversation and Composition. (3). Development of advanced oral and written communication skills. PREREQUISITE: RUSS 2202 or permission of instructor. 3302. Russian Conversation and Composition. (3). Continuation of RUSS 3301. PREREQUISITE: RUSS 3301 or permission of instructor.3441. Early Nineteenth-Century Russian Literature. (3). Survey of major writers and works of the first half of the 19th century, including Pushkin and Gogol. 3442. Nineteenth-Century Russian Realism. (3). Survey of major writers and works of the last half of the 19th century, including Dostoevskii and Tolstoi. 3443. Twentieth-Century Russian Prose. (3). Survey of Russian literature since 1900, including selected writers and works of the pre-revolutionary and Soviet periods and Russian emigre literature. 3611. Survey of Russian Civilization. (3). Russia and its people; highlights of Russian civilization as revealed in the fields of literature, music, painting, and architecture. May not be used for Russian language credit. 4309. The Art of Translating Russian. (3). PREREQUISITE: RUSS 2202 or permission of instructor. 4780. Individual Studies in Russian. (1-3). Directed individual study in selected areas of Russian chosen in consultation with The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]instructor. Repeatable for a maximum of 6 semester hours credit by permission of chair. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. SPANISH (SPAN) 1101. Elementary Spanish. (3). Basic skills fundamental to language proficiency and culture. 1102. Elementary Spanish. (3). Further development of basic skills fundamental to language proficiency and culture. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 1101 or equivalent. 1112. Intensive Elementary Spanish. (6). First-year college Spanish. Skills fundamental to language proficiency and culture. Covers material of SPAN 1101 and 1102. Classroom sessions daily. A maximum of 6 hours credit may be received for any combination of SPAN 1101, 1102, and 1112. 2201. Intermediate Spanish. (3). Comprehensive review of Spanish grammar, exercises in writing conversation, and readings in Hispanic literature and culture. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 1102 or equivalent. 2202. Intermediate Spanish. (3). More advanced readings. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 2201 or equivalent. 2212. Intensive Intermediate Spanish. (6). Comprehensive review of Spanish grammar. Exercises in writing, conversation. Readings in Hispanic literature and culture. Covers material of SPAN 2201 and 2202. Meets every day. A maximum of 6 hours credit may by received for any combination of SPAN 2201, 2202, and 2212. 3301. Conversation. (3). (3300). Designed to help students develop oral proficiency. Diverse opportunities for self-expression. Not intended for students with native or near-native proficiency in Spanish. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 2202 or equivalent. 3303. Composition. (3). (3300). Designed to develop adequate writing skills. Compositions analyzed to identify and avoid frequent grammatical errors and to avoid interference from English. Not intended for students with native or near-native proficiency. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 2202 or equivalent. 3311. Intermediate Conversation. (3). (3302). Designed to develop strong conversational and listening skills. Includes wide variety of activities, exposure to different pronunciations and native conversational speed. Selected readings to help expand vocabulary. Not intended for students with native or near-native proficiency. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 3301 or permission of instructor. 3312. Advanced Conversation. (3). Further vocabulary expansion, precision in diction, and ability to express and understand non-technical subjects. Required of majors and minors. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 3311 or permission of instructor. 3313. Advanced Composition. (3). (3300). Designed to develop strong command of written language. Emphasis on style, organization and exposition of content as opposed to grammatical analysis. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 3303 or permission of instructor. 4302-6302. Advanced Grammar. (3). Special problems in grammar; recommended for majors and minors. PREREQUISITE: 3000-level Spanish course or equivalent. 4306-6306. Applied Spanish Linguistics. (3). Current research in linguistics, psycholinguistics and sociolinguistics and their contribution to second language teaching and second-language learning. 4410-6410. Spanish Literature and Civilization. (3). (3410). Survey of literary movements and major figures with readings in literature and civilization. Required of majors. PREREQUISITE: 3312 or equivalent. 4431-6431. Contemporary Spanish Prose. (3). Spanish prose from Generation of 1898 to present. PREREQUISITES: SPAN 4410 or permission of instructor. 4432-6432. Contemporary Spanish Poetry and Drama. (3). Spanish poetry and drama from Generation of 1898 to present. PREREQUISITES: 4410 or permission of instructor. 4510-6510. Spanish American Literature and Civilization. (3). (3510). Survey of literary movements and major figures with readings in literature and civilization. Required of majors. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 3312 or equivalent. 4561-6561. Pre-Contemporary Spanish American Prose Fiction. (3). Development of Spanish American novel and short story from beginnings through 20th century. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 4510. 4562-6562. Contemporary Spanish American Prose Fiction. (3). Spanish American novel and short story of 20th century. PREREQUISITE: SPAN 4510. 4701. Spanish for Commerce I. (3). (3791). Spanish business terminology and correspondence. PREREQUISITE: any 3000-level Spanish course or permission of instructor. 4702. Spanish for Commerce II. (3). (3792). Business concepts and documents. PREREQUISITE: any 3000-level Spanish course The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]or permission of instructor. 4780. Individual Studies in Spanish. (1-3). Directed individual study in selected areas of Spanish chosen in consultation with instructor. Repeatable for a maximum of 6 semester hours credit by permission of chairman. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor.4790-99. Special Topics in Literature and Linguistics. (3). Literary topics include medieval literature, Golden Age, 19th century literature, and Spanish American drama. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor.GEOGRAPHY AND PLANNING PROFESSOR HSIANG-TE KUNG, Chair Room 107, Johnson Hall The prerequisite for all 3000 and 4000 level courses is either U of M junior standing (a minimum of 55 semester hours credit) or the permission of the instructor. NOTE: Students eligible to repeat a course to improve a grade in GEOG 2301 or GEOG 2311 may use the grade earned in GEOG 1301 to improve a grade in either GEOG 2301 or GEOG 2311, but not both. GEOGRAPHY (GEOG) 1001. Introduction to Environmental and Earth Science: Weather and Climate. (3). (1101). Atmospheric processes and geographic distribution of radiation, moisture, pressure, and circulation interacting to create weather systems and storms; oceanic influences, earth-sun relationships, global climate patterns; human interaction with atmosphere. PREREQUISITE: two years of high school algebra. [G]. 1002. Introduction to Environmental and Earth Science: Landforms. (3). (1102). Agents and processes of landform development and geographic relationships of landscapes including volcanic, fluvial, glacial, and coastal environments; soil development and vegetation associations; environmental hazards to humans; maps and aerial photo interpretation as sources of environmental information. PREREQUISITE: two years of high school algebra. [G]. 1103. Global Environmental Change. (3). Examination of global environmental change from interdisciplinary approach. Focus on changes in the atmosphere, lithosphere, and hydrosphere, especially those that seem to be related to human actions. Includes greenhouse-gas induced global warming, ozone depletion as related to CFCs released by people, effect of accelerated deforestation and reforestation on biosphere, and relation between human activities and soil erosion and depletion. PREREQUISITE: one introductory natural science course or permission of instructor. 1011. Introduction to Environmental and Earth Science: Weather and Climate Laboratory. (1). (1101 Lab). Laboratory exercises, observations, and experiments designed to apply scientific methods to lecture subjects. Students make observations of atmospheric phenomena and use instruments, both in lab and in field, in order to better understand what is involved in experimental problems. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: GEOG 1001. [G]. 1022. Introduction to Environmental and Earth Science: Landforms Laboratory. (1) (1102 Lab). Laboratory exercises, observations, and experiments designed to apply scientific methods to lecture subjects. Topographic maps and aerial photographs are major information sources for interpretation and analysis. Stereoscopes utilized for three-dimensional viewing. Stream tables, soil profiles, and landscape models used to illustrate physical processes interacting to modify earth's surface. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: GEOG 1002. [G]. 1301. Survey of World Regions. (3). Survey of economic, cultural and physical traits characteristic of developing and industrialized nations. [G]. 1401. Introduction to Cultural Geography. (3). Geographical aspects of human behavior. Focuses on distributional patterns and interactions of such cultural characteristics as language, religion, politics, and economics. [G]. 3200. Peoples and Cultures of the World (Same as ANTH 3200). (3). Major ethnographic areas and selected cultures of world.3221. Principles of Conservation. (3). Development of conservation ethic and wilderness concepts, survey of environmental problems, land use, and energy and resource utilization; soil erosion and crop productivity relationships. 3401. Historical Geography of the U.S. (3). Evolution of the cultural landscapes of the United States with emphasis on the interaction of environment and people in the development of this nation. [G]. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]3430. Economic Geography. (3). Spatial characteristics and distribution of economic activities. 3451. Introduction to Urban Planning. (3). Introduction to regional and urban planning emphasizing spatial relationships of physical, economic, and cultural phenomena necessary in planning process. 3501. Map Reading. (3). Comprehensive study of maps as geographic tools that enable user to gain knowledge of earth through map reading and map interpretation and to make intelligent use of such map information. 3514. Introduction to Geographic Information Systems. (3). Introduction to fundamentals of geographic information systems (GIS) and the use of computer systems for information processing and spatial analysis. Three lecture hours per week. 4111-6111. Synoptic Meteorology I. (4). Basic weather parameters and atmospheric processes in weather analysis and forecasting. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOG 1101 or consent of instructor. 4112-6112. Synoptic Meteorology II. (4). Advanced forecasting skills and techniques and detailed specifics of weather forecasting, including severe weather and aviation forecasting. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOG 4111.4115-6115. Dynamic Meteorology I. (3). General principles of thermodynamics, the equation of state, thermodynamic diagrams, hydrostatic equilibrium, stability, and convection, and application of these principles to weather analysis and forecasting. PREREQUISITES: MATH 1321, 2321; PHYS 2510 and 2003. [C]. 4116-6116. Dynamic Meteorology II. (3). Applications of general principles of mechanics and fluid motions to study of atmosphere. Topics include equations of motion, circulation, divergence, numerical weather prediction, kinematics of fluid flow, vorticity, and surfaces of discontinuity. PREREQUISITE: GEOG 4115. 4121-6121. Environmental and Earth Science: The Earth. (3). Analytical study of landforms, their changes, and their uses to humankind. 4122-6122. Environmental and Earth Science: The Soil. (3). Processes and dynamics of soil profile development. Major models of soil development examined and applied to soil genesis in Tennessee. Application of soil techniques to archaeology, planning, earth sciences, and soil conservation and erosion problems. Emphasis on field and laboratory techniques with field work in soil mapping and soil taxonomy. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. 4201-6201. Urbanization and Environment. (3). Ways man has changed natural environment by urbanization and how physical features and processes influence development and function of cities. 4211-6211. Climatology. (3). Climatic elements and methods of data analysis; applications of climatology in agriculture, health, economics, and architecture. PREREQUISITES: GEOG 1001/1011 and PHYS 2110 and 2001. 4215-6215. Physical Climatology. (3). Components of earth's energy balance, emphasis on solar radiation, heat transfer, and evapotranspiration. PREREQUISITES: GEOG 1001/1011 and PHYS 2110 and 2001. 4231-6231. Water Resources. (3). Hydrologic processes and their application to needs of cities, industry, agriculture, and recreation.4241-6241. Biogeography. (3). Principles underlying spatial distribution of plants, including physical, biotic, and historical controls; vegetation dynamics; survey of patterns and processes of North American vegetation. 4251-6251. Environmental Issues and Natural Hazards. (3). Interrelations between human beings and natural hazards; importance of policy decisions; planet-wide climatic changes, potential changes in earth-sun relations, inadequate food production, local disasters, and nuclear contamination. 4304-6304. Geography of Europe. (3). Geographic analysis of physical, cultural and economic characteristics of Europe. 4306-6306. Geography of Asia. (3). Significance of regional differences in Japan, China, and India, and brief survey of remaining areas. 4313-6313. Geography of the United States and Canada. (3). Physical, cultural, and economic characteristics of United States and Canada. 4316-6316. Geography of the South. (3). Selected regions in South; emphasis on changes and trends in cultural-physical complex.4324-6324. Geography of Middle America. (3). Peoples and places of Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean. Topics will include history of Maya and Aztec culture, cultural ecology and traditional land use, contemporary development issues, and the region's global situation. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4325-6325. Geography of South America. (3). Lands and peoples of the diverse regions of South America, folk populations, Amazonia, Andean issues; contemporary economics and resources in a developing world region. 4431-6431. Urban Geography. (3). Allocation of land for urban uses; adjustments and adaptations to existing physical phenomena; patterns, functions, and forms of specific urban land areas; and some continuous problems of urban development and growth.4442-6442. Commercial Land Use. (3). (same as FIR 4360). Factors influencing the location pattern of commercial land uses; emphasis on location analysis of commercial real estate. 4443-6443. Transportation Planning. (3). Planning for various transportation modes and networks and impact they have on land use and contemporary development problems. 4502-6502. Computer Mapping. (3). Use of computer mapping programs as effective techniques for visual presentation of wide variety of data. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. 4503-6503. Map Design and Production. (3). Cartographic theory and application to thematic mapping; use of computer for creation, editing, proofing, and reproduction of maps. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. 4510-6510. Aerial Photo Interpretation. (3). (Same as GEOL 4510). Elements and steps involved in interpreting, measuring, and mapping of images appearing on aerial photographs. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. 4511-6511. Remote Sensing of the Environment. (3). (Same as GEOL 4512). Survey of theory and application; use of color, infrared, thermal, and radar images generated from satellites for geographic, environmental, and planning purposes. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOG 4510 or consent of instructor. 4514-6514. Geographic Information Systems. (3). Role and nature of using interactive computer mapping for decision support in resource management. Structure and use of spatial databases in the decision process. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOG 3514. 4521-6521. Quantitative Methods. (3). Introduction to quantitative methods in spatial analysis. [C]. 4524-6524. Advanced Geographic Information Systems. (3). Advanced study of database manipulation, data interface, and cartographic modeling techniques with emphasis on customizing GIS applications and automated modeling procedures. Also includes use and manipulation of commercially available data as sources for GIS applications. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOG 4514 or consent of instructor. 4531-6531. Field Methods. (3). Basic methods of geographic analysis used in classifying, analyzing and reporting field- generated data including field mapping, sampling procedures, questionnaires and archival and public document research. One and one-half lecture, three laboratory hours per week. 4541. Field Studies. (1-6). Faculty-conducted field trip emphasizing study of geographic phenomena. Location will vary. Topics may include physical landscapes, land-use patterns, cross-cultural analysis, micro and regional economics, or other geographical processes. Credit hours based on length of time in field. Requires field journal and report to receive credit. May be repeated with change in content for maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITES: permission of instructor and completion of special registration. 4551. Urban Planning Studio. (3). Application of planning process to urban problems and preparation of plans for the urban area. PREREQUISITE: GEOG 3451 or consent of instructor. 4610-19-6610-19. Special Topics in Geography. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4621. Independent Study. (1-3). Student, under faculty supervision, studies in-depth particular geographic topic. Repeatable with change in content to maximum of 3 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: approval of instructor. 4700-6700. Geography Internship. (1-9). Experience working with agency in which geographic knowledge can be utilized. Repeatable to maximum of 9 semester hours. Credit allowed only after acceptance of report. PREREQUISITE: approval of instructor and chair. (S/U). 4801. Geographical Thought and Application. (3). Major concepts in environmental/earth sciences, human/cultural, and economic/urban geography. Proseminar format requires review of readings with oral and written presentations. Focus on synthesis and application of geographic concepts to contemporary research themes. PREREQUISITE: 15 semester hours in Geography with at least one course from each of the following areas: Environmental and Earth Sciences, Human Geography, and Regional Geography. [I, W]. GEOLOGICAL SCIENCES The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]PROFESSOR PHILI DEBOO, Chair Room 402 J. M. Smith Hall GEOLOGY (GEOL) 1101. Physical Geology. (4). Introduction to processes that operate within and on surface of earth; forces that make mountains and valleys, and those that move continents; special emphasis on topics important to Mid-South, such as earthquakes, rivers, and groundwater. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. [G]. 1102. Historical Geology. (4). (1201). Overview of history of earth and its life as interpreted from rock and fossil record; origins of continents, mountain ranges, ocean basins and natural regions of U.S. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 1101. 1103. Environmental Geology. (4). Applications of Physical Geology to understanding, evaluating and solving problems created by natural hazards and those created by humans. A study in the management, utilization and preservation of our natural regions, finite space and resources. Three lecture and two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 1101. [G]. 3211. Invertebrate Paleontology. (4). Fossil invertebrate animals and their importance in interpretation of ancient environments, evolution, and geologic time. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: GEOL 1101,1102. [W]. 3311. Mineralogy. (3). Structural and chemical crystallography of minerals; classification and identification of nonsilicate minerals. One lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 1101. COREQUISITES: CHEM 1121, 1131. 3312. Introduction to Petrology. (3). Classification and identification of silicate minerals; classification, identification and genesis of igneous and metamorphic rocks in hand specimens. One lecture and four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 3311. 3313. Optical Mineralogy. (3). Optical theory of light transmission through minerals, identification of translucent minerals in oil immersion with the petrographic microscope. One lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 3312 or consent of instructor.3512. Structural Geology. (4). Structures of the crust; geometry of folds and faults, rock deformation, criteria for recognizing structures, solution of geometrical problems. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 1101, MATH 1321, or consent of instructor. [C]. 3712. Sedimentology and Stratigraphy. (4). Origin and classification of sedimentary rocks and mutual relationship of sedimentary rock bodies both geographically and through geologic time. Lecture emphasizes comparison of modern depositional systems with their ancient counterparts. Laboratory emphasizes hand specimen analysis and preparation of geologic maps. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 1102. 3802. Introduction to Oceanography. (3). Origin, chemistry, water circulation, shoreline and deep water characteristics of oceans; its role in evolution and history of earth; marine life and its ecology. 4010-19-6010-19. Special Topics In Geological Sciences. (3). Topics vary and are announced in the Schedule of Classes. 4100-6100. Petroleum Geology and Basin Analysis. (3). Application of geologic principles to search for economic accumulations of oil and gas; lab emphasis on prospect selection using subsurface techniques, lecture emphasis on depomodels and depositional systems. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 3712. 4202-6202. Geomorphology. (4). Description, origin and interpretation of landforms and their relationships to underlying structure and geologic history. Processes acting on earth's surface, including active tectonics; weather; mass-wasting; climate change; and fluvial, shoreline, and glacial processes. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 1102. 4211-6211. Physical Hydrogeology. (3). Movement, storage and development of groundwater. Groundwater in the hydrologic cycle. Aquifer characteristics and tests. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 1101. 4322-6322. Igneous and Metamorphic Petrology. (4). Description and interpretation of igneous and metamorphic rocks through study of thin sections. Two lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 3312; CHEM 1122, 1132. 4332-6332. Introduction to Geochemistry. (3). Geological and chemical processes that govern or control migration and distribution of elements and atomic species of earth in space and time. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 3312. 4341-6341. Aqueous Geochemistry. (3). Physical chemistry of aqueous solutions as applied to geochemical processes on earth's surface. PREREQUISITE: CHEM 1112. 4342-6342. Environmental Geochemistry. (3). Detailed discussion of geochemical reactions and processes as related to specific environmental problems. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 4341 or consent of instructor. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4351-6351. Advanced Structural Geology. (3). (4642). Analysis of crustal structure; stress and strain in rocks, mechanical interpretation of crustal structures. PREREQUISITES: GEOL 3512, MATH 1321. 4510-6510. Aerial Photo Interpretation. (3). (Same as GEOG 4510). Elements and steps involved in interpreting, measuring and mapping images appearing on aerial photographs. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. 4511-6511. Economic Mineral Deposits. (3). Origin, occurrence, and composition of metallic and nonmetallic mineral deposits. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: GEOL 3311, 3312, and 3512. 4512-6512. Remote Sensing of the Environment. (3). (Same as GEOG 4511). Survey of theory and application; use of color, infrared, thermal and radar images generated from satellites for geographic, geologic, environmental and planning purposes. PREREQUISITE: GEOL 4510. 4622. Geology Field Camp. (6). Preparation of structural and lithologic maps in prescribed geologic areas using topographic maps and aerial photographs. Instruments used are the alidade and the Brunton compass. Offered in summer school only. PREREQUISITES: GEOL 3312, 3512, and 3712. [I]. 4701-6701. Spring Field Trip. (1-2). Conducted field trips during spring vacation. About 30 hours of field work follow 2-4 hours of lectures. Open to non-majors. Among areas which may be included are Ouachita-Arbuckle-Wichita Mountains of Oklahoma; Ouachita, Ozark dome and adjacent mineral districts; central and southern Appalachians; and Gulf Coastal Plain. Check Schedule of Classes for specific location. NOTE: May be repeated three times when location varies. A total of no more than 8 hours credit may be earned. Dates, hours and credits to be arranged. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. 4721. Investigations in Geology. (1-3). Individual or group work on topics of current interest. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. 4731. Senior Thesis. (1-3). Original study on subject of geological significance to be carried on independently by student with faculty supervision. PREREQUISITE: senior standing in Geology. GEOPHYSICS (GEOP) 4101-6101. Introduction to Geophysics. (3). (GEOL 4652). Fundamental topics: earth's ages and their thermal state, main gravity and magnetic fields; dynamic models of earth's interior, comparison of terrestrial planets. PREREQUISITES: PHYS 2111, MATH 1321. 4111-6111. Advanced Physical Geology. (3). Geology for geophysicists from advanced quantitative viewpoint; the earth as a planet; its structure; its physical and chemical environment; its materials and processes on its surface and interior; its evolution from a physical and geological viewpoint. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. 4201-6201. Applied Geophysics. (4). (GEOL 4632). Geophysic prospecting methods; seismic reflection and seismic refraction techniques, and electrical, magnetic, and gravity field measurements with emphasis on fundamental principles governing acquisition and interpretation of geophysical data. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. 4401-6401. Introduction to Seismology. (3). (GEOL 4440). Wave propagation in the earth. Topics include elasticity, elastic wave equation, vibration and waves, body and surface elastic waves, seismic rays, reflection and refraction of seismic waves, and the earthquake source. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 4391 or consent of instructor. 4721. Seismogram Reading. (1). Introduction to seismogram interpretation of recent earthquakes recorded by the instruments of CERI and the Global Digital Seismic Network. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. (S/U). 4722. Investigations In Geophysics. (1-3). (GEOL 4722). Individual or group work on topics of current interest in the broad field of geophysics. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. 4931. Senior Thesis. (1-3). Original study on subject of geophysical significance, to be carried on independently by student with faculty supervision. PREREQUISITE: senior standing. HISTORYPROFESSOR F. JACK HURLEY, Chair Room 100, Mitchell Hall All candidates for graduation at The University of Memphis are required to complete History 2601 or 2602. HISTORY (HIST) The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]1301. The Development of World Civilization I. (3). Especially recommended for freshmen. Traces forms of civilization from beginnings to 1500. [G]. 1302. The Development of World Civilization II. (3). Especially recommended for freshmen. Traces forms of civilization from 1500 to present [Gl. 2601. The United States to 1877. (3). United States from discovery to end of political reconstruction. [G]. 2602. The United State Since 1877. (3). United States from 1877 to present. [G]. 3010. Special Issues In History. (3). May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. 3035. Technology and Culture in American History. (3). Interrelationship between technology and culture; emphasis on 19th and early 20th centuries. 3040. Research Tools for the Humanities. (3). Introduction to history of computing; familiarization with computers, operating systems, word processing, database management, spreadsheets, statistical analysis, and bibliographical search; consideration of social, ethical, and legal implications of computers, emphasis on applications to humanities. NOTE: Beginning knowledge of basic statistics recommended. 3045. Quantification and History. (3). Concepts of quantification in history; survey of literature of quantitative history; practical work in quantitative methods in history. PREREQUISITE: COMP 1200 or its equivalent or successful completion of university's computer literacy examination. [C]. 3121. England Before 1714. (3). Political, constitutional, cultural, social, and economic development of England from coming of Anglo-Saxons until Hanoverian accession in 1714. 3122. England Since 1714. (3). Development of England's democratic government, considering economic, social, intellectual, diplomatic, and imperial affairs. 3211. Colonial Latin America. (3). Political, economic, social and cultural development in Latin America from pre-conquest era to 1808.3212. The Latin American Nations. (3). Major political, economic, and social trends in Latin America since 1808. Emphasis on Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Mexico. 3271. The Middle East. (3). Political, diplomatic, social and religious developments in Middle East from 1800 to present. 3275. History of the Jewish People. (3). History of Jewish people from antiquity to present; emphasis on their changing relationships to larger cultures in which they participated. 3290. Traditional Asia. (3). Comparative survey of civilizations in India, China, Japan, and Southeast Asia, from their beginnings through the 18th century. 3291. Modern Asia. (3). Asia from 1800 to present, focusing on Asian reactions to colonialism, and rise of modern nation states in India, Japan, China, and Southeast Asia. 3300. The Ascent to Civilization. (3). (Same as ANTH 3300). Interdisciplinary integrative examination of nature of civilization through investigation of origins of civilization and comparative study of world's earliest civilizations. PREREQUISITE: 9 hours of history or anthropology, including either HIST 1301 or ANTH 1100. [I]. 3301. Early Modern Europe, 1500-1800. (3). 3302. Modern Europe, 1800 to Present. (3). 3320. The Ancient World. (3). Survey of civilizations of ancient Egypt and the Near East, Greece, and Rome. 3506. Cultural and Intellectual History of Europe. (3). Topics in history of European culture and thought from late Middle Ages to twentieth century. [W]. 3803. American Diplomatic History. (3). Though including the 18th and 19th centuries, course concentrates on 20th. Emphasizes relationship between foreign policy and domestic forces. NOTE: Students who have received credit for HIST 3801 or 3802 will not be allowed credit for HIST 3803. 3811. United States Military and Naval History. (3). (4811). Developments since colonial period; emphasis on background and growth of national military and naval establishments, military and naval thought, difficulties accompanying modernization and assumption of global responsibilities, and problem of relationship between civilian and military-naval sectors in democracy. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]3817. Vietnam War in Global Perspective. (3). Traditional Vietnamese culture, its response to contact with the West and, more extensively, involvement of United States in the Indochina War. 3823. Economic History of the United States. (3). NOTE: Students who have received credit for HIST 3821 or 3822 will not be allowed credit for HIST 3823. 3840. United States Constitutional History. (3). Constitutional developments from colonial period to present, emphasis on English heritage, constitutional antecedents of revolutionary era, origins and growth of federal system under Constitution of 1787, and evolution of modern constitutional government in United States. 3863. Social and Intellectual History of the United States. (3). Survey of way Americans have thought about essential features of social and political order. Focus on development of and debate over central ideas of equality, freedom, and individualism that have defined the order of the common life. NOTE: Students who have received credit for HIST 3861 or 3862 will not be allowed credit for HIST 3863. [G]. 3865. History of Immigration to United States. (3). Nature and effects of immigration to United States from 1776 to present. 3900. History of Tennessee. (3). Political, economic, and social development of Tennessee from earliest times. [G]. 3905. History of Memphis. (3). Political, social and economic aspects of development of Memphis from foundation to present. 3920. The Old South. (3). Southern institutions prior to outbreak of Civil War. 3930. The New South. (3). South from Civil War to present. 3940. The West. (3). Significance of frontier in development of United States from Revolutionary period to 1890. 4003. The Philosophy of History. (3). History as a distinct discipline. Thought of leading Western philosophers of history about nature of history in its two senses--history as actuality and history as thought about actuality. [W]. 4012. Directed Readings, Honors. (3). Under the direction of faculty member, student reads about particular topic or topics. PREREQUISITE: admission to Honors Program. 4014. Directed Readings. (1-3). Readings on particular topic in history under supervision of member of faculty. 4020-6020. Internship in History. (3-12). Supervised internships working with various governmental agencies, private foundations or businesses of interest to historians. May be repeated for up to 12 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of department.4022-6022. Oral History. (3). Applied history, covering oral history theory, research, and interviewing procedures. 4050-69-6050-69. Special Topics in History. (1-3). Intensive study of selected topics; topic announced in Schedule of Classes.4126-6126. Victorian and Edwardian England. (3). Social, political, and cultural adjustments of England to experience of industrialization in 19th and early 20th centuries. 4145-6145. History of Modern Germany. (3). Germany from origins of unification movement in Napoleonic Era through Second World War. 4160-6160. Russia to 1917. (3). Russia from earliest times to 1917; emphasis on the rise of serfdom and autocracy and evolution of revolutionary movement. 4162-6162. History of the Soviet Union. (3). Detailed study of 1917 Revolution and major developments in government, economy, cultural and social life, and international affairs that followed. [W]. 4200-6200. History of Spain. (3). Spanish institutions, culture and politics from ancient times to present. 4240-6240. History of Mexico. (3). Political, economic, social, and cultural development of Mexico from ancient times to present.4250-6250. History of Brazil. (3). Political, economic, social, and cultural development of Brazil from early times to the present. 4260-6260. The World Since 1945. (3). Global ideological, economic and political developments since World War II. Emphasizes rising affluence of industrial free market, movement of former colonies to independence, and growth in diversity among Soviet bloc nations. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4281-6281. Africa South of the Sahara. (3). Emphasis on black Africa in nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Age of imperialism and impact of West on Africa, colonial policies of European powers; rise of nationalist movements; problems of newly independent nations; role of African countries in world affairs. 4282-6282. The History of North Africa. (3). Emphasis on nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Extension of European influence and control; rise of nationalist movements; role of these areas in world affairs. 4283-6283. The History of Southern Africa. (3). European colonization and impact on African people from 1652 to date in Republic of South Africa, Rhodesia, and former High Commission territories. 4292-6292. History of Modern China, 1800 to the Present. (3). 4294-6294. History of Modern Japan, 1800 to the Present. (3). 4295-6295. Intellectual History of East Asia Since 1800. (3). Evolution of modern Chinese and Japanese thought. 4320-6320. Ancient Near East. (3). From beginnings in Egypt and Mesopotamia to great empires of Assyria, Babylon, Persia. 4321-6321. The Greek Experience. (3). Politics, society and culture in ancient Greece to Alexander the Great. 4322-6322. The Roman World. (3). Hellenistic kingdoms and Roman Empire. 4361-6361. History of the Byzantine Empire. (3). Byzantine or East Roman Empire from 330 to 1453 and its influence on Slavic, Turkic, and Islamic peoples. 4371-6371. Early Middle Ages. (3). Late Roman Empire, migration period, emergence of Islamic, Byzantine, and West European cultures through period of Investiture Controversy. 4372-6372. The High Middle Ages. (3). Urban emergence, growth of feudal monarchy, foundations of modern political institutions, medieval universities, and intellectual fabric of scholasticism. 4380-6380. Renaissance Europe, 1300-1520. (3). Transition from medieval to early modern institutions in Europe; emphasis on urban growth, capitalism, emergent nationalism, international diplomacy, and humanism. 4390-6390. Europe in the Age of the Reformation. (3). Characteristic political, social, economic, intellectual, and cultural developments and religious conflicts of late fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. 4401-6401. Europe in the Age of the Baroque. (3). Political crises, development of monarchial absolutism, rise of modern science, and cultural synthesis in seventeenth century. 4440-6440. The Era of the French Revolution. (3). The Old Regime, origins and development of Enlightenment thought, and revolutionary and counter-revolutionary movements in 18th century Europe. 4453-6453. Europe, 1815-1914. (3). NOTE: Students who have received credit for HIST 4451 or 4452 will not be allowed credit for HIST 4453. 4461-6461. Europe, 1914-1945. (3). 4503-6503. Disease and Medicine in History. (3). How various diseases and the medical attempts to conquer them influenced economic, political, and social action throughout history. Emphasis on significant work in history of public health and speculation about importance of environmental factors in man's future. 4620-6620. Colonial America, to 1783. (3). Political development and economic, social and cultural institutions of English Colonies in America, including origins and conduct of American Revolution. 4630-6630. The New Nation, 1783-1815. (3). 4640-6640. Jacksonian America, 1815-1850. (3). 4670-6670. Civil War and Reconstruction, 1850-1877. (3). 4680-6680. Emergence of Modern America, 1877-1914. (3). United States from end of Reconstruction to outbreak of World War I. 4701-6701. The United States, 1914 to the Second World War. (3). United States from outbreak of World War I to World War II. 4702-6702. United States from the Second World War. (3). The United States from World War II to present. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4823-6823. American Labor History. (3). Historical development of labor movement in United States; emphasis on social, economic, and political trends related to labor movement. 4824-6824. Business History. (3). Historical development of business in the United States; attention to social, economic, and political trends related to American business communities. 4831-6831. History of American Family. (3). Analysis of changes in family size and structure and relationships between family and society from colonial times to present. 4851-6851. History of Women in America. (3). History of women from discovery of America to present. [G]. 4861-6861. Parks/People/Public Policy. (3). Comparative study of history and administration of public land areas in the United States, and of American conservation. 4863-6863. History of Childhood in America. (3). Historical consideration of children and childhood in American society from early 17th century to present. [W]. 4871-6871. United States Urban History. (3). Development of American cities, including formation of local social, economic, and political institutions, and impact of urbanization on United States. 4881-6881. Black American History. (3). History and culture of Afro-Americans in light of their experiences; aspects of Black American life and attitudes of dominant society within which Blacks lived; ways Black men and women shaped and nurtured their own lives, culture and history in U.S. [G]. 4882-6882. Civil Rights Movement in the United States Since 1930. (3). Struggle for African American equality, with emphasis on key civil rights issues, events, leaders, and strategies. 4941-6941. History of the American Indian. (3). Role of Indian in American history. 4996. Honors Thesis. (3). Under direction of faculty member, and with approval of Honors Committee, student writes thesis based on research in primary and/or secondary sources. PREREQUISITE: admission to Honors Program. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR CLIFTON DIXON, Coordinator Room 121, Clement Humanities Building INTERNATIONAL STUDIES (INTL) 1101. Analysis of Developing Nations. (3). Interdisciplinary survey of developing nations, other societies and problems of technologically developing nations. Basic concepts and methods of social sciences employed to study processes of social change in cross-cultural comparison. NOTE: A student may not receive credit for both INTL 1101-1102 and UNIV 1410. 1102. The Third World: A Regional View. (3). Interdisciplinary survey of contemporary developing nations within a major world region. Regional focus on Africa, Latin America, Southeast Asia, or Indian Subcontinent. 4601. Seminar in International Relations. (3). Investigation of selected topics in international relations from interdisciplinary perspective. Individual research and presentation of major paper that integrates tools, data or concepts of two or more disciplines. PREREQUISITE: permission of International Relations advisor. 4911. Internship in International Relations. (1-6). Practical experience in international organization. Students placed for some period of time with governmental or private organization to obtain practical experience in foreign policy making, problems of development, and/or cross-cultural communication. Academic credit granted upon certification of cooperating agency and acceptance by faculty of written report by student. May be repeated for up to 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of Coordinator of International Relations. 4912. Directed Individual Study. (1-6). Individually directed advanced reading and/or research in special areas of interest. NOTE: Course may be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of Coordinator of International Relations.MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES PROFESSOR EBENEZER O. GEORGE, Interim Chair The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]Room 373, Dunn Mathematics & Foreign Languages Building The Department of Mathematical Sciences offers general courses in mathematics, statistics and computer science for students in all departments of the university, with specially designed programs for the principal divisions of the university. Courses satisfying specific graduation requirements of the several colleges are listed in the description of the degree requirements for the specific college.The courses MATH 1211 and 1212 provide preparatory instruction, as needed, for required courses. MATH 1211 provides preparation for MATH 1212, and MATH 1212 provides preparation for MATH 1321. For students who do not possess the level of preparation or competency to achieve success in college level courses, Academic Services and Developmental Studies provides a testing and placement program and offers special courses in arithmetic and elementary algebra (R&DS 0720, 0820, and 0821). Students must display a level of competency as found in R&DS 0821 to enter the college level courses in mathematics. MATHEMATICS (MATH) 0990. Foundations of Geometry. (3). Axiomatic development of plane geometry; emphasis on concepts of symmetry, congruence and similarity, Pythagorean Theorem and special right triangle properties; area and volumes of special right triangle properties; area and volumes of special two- and three-dimensional figures. NOTE: will not count toward the 132-semester hour degree requirement for any degree. PREREQUISITE: two units of high school algebra or R&DS 0821. 1181. Concepts of Number. (3). Introduction to logic; set theory; development and applications of numeration systems, mathematical systems and algorithms. PREREQUISITE: two units of high school algebra or R&DS 0821. [G]. 1182. Concepts of Algebra. (3). Algebraic structures, combinatorics, statistics, mathematical proof, problem solving. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1181. [G]. 1211. College Algebra. (3). Systems of equations and inequalities, mathematical induction, matrix methods, partial fractions, synthetic division, theory of equations, sequences and series. NOTE: MATH 1211 and 1213 will not satisfy a six semester hour Mathematics requirement. PREREQUISITE: placement test recommended but not required; two units of high school algebra or R&DS 0821.1212. Trigonometry. (3). Circular functions; inverse circular functions, graphs of circular and inverse functions, identities, equations, angles, trigonometric functions, solution of triangles, elementary application of vectors; trigonometric form of complex numbers. NOTE: MATH 1212 and MATH 1213 will not satisfy a six semester hour Mathematics requirement. PREREQUISITE: placement test recommended but not required; MATH 1211. 1213. College Algebra and Trigonometry. (4). Exponents, radicals, quadratic functions, inequalities; relations and functions; inverse, exponential and logarithmic functions; solution of algebraic systems; trigonometric functions, identities, equations and graphs; angle measurements; sum, difference, half-angle and double-angle formulas; solution of triangles; laws of sines and cosines. NOTE: MATH 1211 and 1213, or 1212 and 1213 will not satisfy a six semester hour Mathematics requirement. PREREQUISITE: two units of high school algebra or R&DS 0821. 1312. Elementary Calculus. (3). Introduction to concepts and methods of elementary calculus of one real variable as related to rational, exponential, and logarithmic functions; nature of derivatives; differentiation; application of derivative; nature of integration; definite integral; applications of definite integral. NOTE: Only one of the courses MATH 1312 or 1321 may be used to satisfy degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1211. [G]. 1321. Analytic Geometry and Calculus. (4). Essentials of analytic geometry of the plane; nature of derivatives; differentiation of algebraic and trigonometric functions; applications of derivatives and antiderivatives. (Placement test recommended but not required.) NOTE: Only one of the courses MATH 1312 or 1321 may be used to satisfy degree requirements. Students may not receive credit for both MATH 1321 and 1401. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1211 or 1213. [G]. 1401. Honors Calculus I. (4). Concepts of differential calculus with emphasis on theory; limits, continuous functions, applications of the derivative. NOTE: Students may not receive credit for both MATH 1401 and 1321. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 1402. Honors Calculus II. (4). Differential and integral calculus with emphasis on theory; anti-derivatives, definite integrals, techniques of integration, sequences, and series. NOTE: Students may not receive credit for both MATH 1402 and 2321. PREREQUISITES: MATH 1401 or 1321 and permission of instructor. 2000. Experiences in Mathematics. (3). Introduction to selected areas of mathematical sciences through application to modeling and solution of problems involving networks, circuits, trees, linear programming, random samples, regression, probability, inference, voting systems, game theory, symmetry and tilings, geometric growth, conics, comparison of algorithms, codes and data management. PREREQUISITE: three years of high school mathematics, including two years of algebra and one year of geometry. [G].2321. Analytic Geometry and Calculus. (4). Differentiation, integration and analytical aspects of elementary transcendental The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]functions; techniques of integration, limits and continuity, applications of definite integral; polar coordinates. NOTE: Students may not receive credit for both MATH 2321 and 1402. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1212 or 1213, and 1321. 2322. Analytic Geometry and Calculus. (4). Indeterminate forms; improper integrals; vectors and analytic geometry in 3- space; partial differentiation; multiple integrals; infinite series. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2321. 2401. Honors Calculus III. (4). Multivariable calculus; vectors and matrices, partial derivative and applications, multiple integrals, line and surface integrals, Green's and Stoke's theorem. NOTE: Students may not receive credit for both MATH 2401 and 2322. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1402. 2581. Concepts of Geometry. (3). Introduction to idea of proof in postulational system; development of geometric relationships independent of number, including congruent triangles, similar triangles, parallelograms, and circles; applications of number in geometry including coordinate geometry, lengths areas, and volumes. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1182. 2701. Discrete Structures. (3). Elementary logic; sets, relations, functions, orderings, equivalence relations, partitions; finite sets, modular arithmetic; natural numbers, mathematical induction, strings, string programs, connectedness, traversals, graph algorithms. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1321. 3221. Elementary Number Theory. (3). Divisibility properties of integers; prime numbers; congruences; Diophantine equations; quadratic residues; number theoretic functions; Fermat's theorem and Euler's generalization; applications to cryptography; quadratic reciprocity law. PREREQUISITE: MATH 3242 (formerly MATH 4241 ); or MATH 2701; or permission of instructor. 3242. Introduction to Linear Algebra. (3). (4241). Systems of linear equations, matrices, elementary row and column operations, determinants; vector spaces and subspaces; linear transformations. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2322; or MATH 2321 and MATH 2701; or permission of instructor. [C]. 3391. Differential Equations. (3). Ordinary differential equations including series solutions. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2322. 3402. Honors Mathematics IV. (4). (2402). Linear algebra and differential equations; vector spaces, bases, linear transformations, matrices, first and second order ordinary differential equations, systems, phase plane methods. NOTE: Students with credit for this course cannot receive credit for MATH 3242 or 3391. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2401. 3581. College Geometry. (3). Axiomatic systems; methods of proof; major results from plane geometry; affine, projective, elliptic, and hyperbolic geometry; applications of differential calculus. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2321. 4010-19-6010-19. Special Topics in Mathematics and Statistics. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4151-6151. History of Mathematics. (3). Development of mathematics from earliest times to present; problem studies; parallel reading and class reports. PREREQUISITE: 21 hours in MATH courses including MATH 2322 and MATH 2701. 4171-6171. Special Problems In Mathematics. (1-3). Directed individual study in selected area of mathematics chosen in consultation with instructor. Repeatable by permission of chair. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4240-6240. Matrix Algebra. (3). (3241). Elementary operations, special classes of matrices, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, canonical forms, and elementary computer implementation. PREREQUISITE: knowledge of Fortran and MATH 1321 or 1312. NOTE: Credit may not be obtained for both MATH 3242 and MATH 4240. 4242-6242. Linear Algebra. (3). Linear transformation, polynomials, determinants, direct-sum decompositions, diagonalizable operators, rational and Jordan forms, inner product spaces, the spectral theorem. PREREQUISITE: MATH 3242. 4261-6261. Abstract Algebra. (3). Groups; homomorphisms; rings; integral domains; polynomials; fields. PREREQUISITE: MATH 3242 or permission of instructor. 4350-6350. Introduction to Real Analysis I. (3). Real number system, functions and sequences, limits, continuity, differentiation; Riemann-Stieltjes integration, series of functions. PREREQUISITES: MATH 2322 and 3242. [W]. 4351-6351. Introduction to Real Analysis II. (3). Integration theory; Riemann and Lebesgue integrals; partial differentiation, implicit function theorem. PREREQUISITE: MATH 4350 or permission of instructor. 4361-6361. Complex Variables. (3). Complex numbers; analytic functions; Cauchy-Riemann conditions; Taylor and Laurent series; integration. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2322. 4390-6390. Ordinary Differential Equations. (3). Existence and uniqueness, linear autonomous and linear non-autonomous systems, stability, classification of linear flows, boundary value problems, and numerical applications. PREREQUISITES: MATH 3391, 3242. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4391-6391. Partial Differential Equations I. (3). Laplace transforms; Fourier series; introduction to partial differential equations. PREREQUISITE: MATH 3391. 4392-6392. Partial Differential Equations II. (3). Methods of characteristics, Green's functions, existence and regularity of solutions of boundary value and Cauchy problems. PREREQUISITE: MATH 4391. 4402. Senior Honors Seminar. (3). In-depth study of one or more topics in mathematical sciences; emphasis on individual research and problem solving techniques; student writes and presents an Honors Thesis. PREREQUISITE: open only to senior Honors Students in mathematical sciences with permission of instructor. 4411-6411. Topology. (3). Introductory set theory; metric spaces; topological spaces; continuous functions; separation axioms; separability and countability axioms; connectedness and compactness. PREREQUISITE: MATH 4350 or 3242. 4701-6701. Mathematics for Computer Scientists. (4). Basic mathematical concepts applied to problem solving in computer science: (di)graphs, trees; enumeration; recurrence relations; induction; basic probability and distributions; integer and modular arithmetic; random number generators; state sets and transition functions, finite-state machines; boolean algebra, and elementary logic. NOTE: Credit may not be obtained for both 2701 and 4701. COREQUISITE: MATH 1321. 4711. Introduction to Mathematical Logic. (3). (Same as COMP 4711). Propositional logic and truth table algorithms, first order calculus: terms, formulas, sentences, models, satisfaction, truth and logical validity; proof procedures and natural deduction; completeness and incompleteness theorems; applications to artificial intelligence, computer theorem proving, and verification of computer programs. PREREQUISITES: MATH 2701 or MATH 4701 or PHIL 3621 or permission of instructor. 4721-6721. Numerical Analysis. (3). Derivation and application of computer-oriented, numerical methods for functional approximation, differentiation, quadrature, and solution of ordinary differential equations. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2321 and knowledge of some structured programming language. 4741-6741. Linear Programming Methods. (3). Theory of linear programming methods, problem formulation; convex sets; simplex and revised simplex methods; matrix games and linear programming. PREREQUISITES: MATH 4240 or 3242 and knowledge of Fortran. 4999. Investigations in Mathematics. (3). Series of seminars that studies interrelationships among diverse areas of mathematical sciences covered in undergraduate program and how they developed. Emphasis on independent work, class discussions, and student projects. PREREQUISITE: senior standing in mathematical sciences. [I]. STATISTICS (MATH) 4611-6611. Basic Concepts of Statistical Methods. (3). Binomial, hypergeometric, Poisson, multinomial and normal distributions, test of hypotheses, chi-square test, t-test, F-test, etc., non parametric tests; correlation analysis. Credit earned for this course may not be applied toward requirements for the Mathematical Sciences major. Students who have a calculus background are encouraged to take MATH 4635 instead of this course. PREREQUISITE: 6 hours in mathematics at level of MATH 1211 or above. 4614-6614. Applied Probability and Queueing Theory. (3). Probability and random variables, discrete and continuous probability distributions, stochastic processes, queueing theory, applications of probability and queueing theory to computer systems. NOTE: Students may not receive credit for both MATH 4614 and MATH 4635. PREREQUISITES: MATH 2321, 2701, and COMP 1900 or its equivalent. 4631-6631. Probability. (3). Basic concepts in probability; probability models; applications. NOTE: Students majoring in Mathematical Sciences may not take MATH 4631 for credit. PREREQUISITES: 6 hours in mathematics at level of MATH 1211 or above.4635-6635. Introduction to Probability Theory. (3). Basic probability theory, random variables, expectation, variance, covariance, moment generating functions. Binomial, hypergeometric, Poisson, geometric, negative binomial, uniform, normal, exponential, Cauchy, chi-square, t, and F distributions. Central limit theorem. Functions of a random variable. Bivariate, marginal, and conditional distributions. NOTE: Students may not receive credit for both MATH 4614 and MATH 4635. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2321.4636-6636. Introduction to Statistical Theory. (3). (4613). Functions of two random variables, Gamma, beta, multinomial, and bivariate normal distributions. Bayesian estimators, Maximum likelihood and method of moments estimators. Sufficient statistics, unbiasedness, confidence intervals, and hypothesis testing. PREREQUISITE: MATH 4635. COREQUISITE: MATH 2322. 4637-6637. Statistical Methods. (3). Basic concepts of hypothesis testing; comparisons of two population means, proportions, and variances; analysis of variance; completely randomized designs, randomized block designs, Latin square designs; multiple comparisons; simple linear model and multiple regression; analysis of covariance. PREREQUISITE: MATH 4611 or 4635. 4640-6640. Introduction to Probability Models. (3). Basic concepts of discrete Markov chains; branching processes; Poisson The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]processes; applications to modelling of population growth; applications to modelling of spread of infectious disease. PREREQUISITE: MATH 4635. COMPUTER SCIENCE (COMP) 1200. Computer Literacy. (4). Computer and its role in modern world; history of computing and social, ethical, and legal implications of computer use; introduction to computer programming and use of programs for educational and career tasks. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. Satisfies computer literacy requirement for graduation. Credit may not be applied for degree or concentration in Computer Science. PREREQUISITES: R&DS 0821, or two units of high school algebra, or one unit of algebra and one unit of geometry. 1900. Computer Programming. (4). (1000). Principles of computer programming style, expression, and documentation: design specifications, algorithmic problem solving, stepwise refinement, storage variables and structures, assignments, primitive operations, and branching; coding in high-level programming language: data typing, standard procedures and functions, subprograms and parameters, control structures, and I/O. NOTE: For Computer Science majors. Non-majors should elect COMP 4001. Three lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1211. 2150. Data Structure. (3). Recursive procedures. Representation, programming and applications of basic data structures including linked lists stacks, queues, trees, and sets. Basic sort and search algorithms. Hashing. PREREQUISITE: COMP 1900 and MATH 1321; COREQUISITE: MATH 2701 . 3160. File Processing. (3). (4160). Concepts of record, file, paging blocking, compaction, database; sequential bulk storage devices, external sort/merge algorithms, algorithms for updating sequential files, linked lists, file-oriented tree structures, traversing and balancing trees, network concepts; random access bulk storage devices, algorithms and storage of inverted files, multilists, indexed sequential and hierarchical structures, file I/O. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150. 3230. Assembly Language Programming. (3). Computer machine language: opcodes, addressing modes, arithmetic and logic, program control, interrupts; symbolic coding and assembly systems: labels, mnemonics, expressions, assembler directives, assembly process; program design, coding, testing, tracing, and debugging; advanced assembler features; partial assembly, program segmentation, loading, and linking, macro instructions. PREREQUISITE: COMP 1900. 3420. Computer Organization. (3). Binary signals, combinational and sequential logic networks, computer structure, memory, control, processing, and I/O units; bus-structured systems, fetch-execute cycle, timing, principal instruction types and execution, addressing and accessing techniques, interrupts; standard communication codes, parity, encoders, decoders, and code conversion. PREREQUISITE: COMP 1900. COREQUISITE: COMP 3230. 3720. Intelligent Systems--Human and Machine. (3). (Same as PHYS 3720). Intelligence and artificial intelligence, the brain, the computer, limits of computation, knowledge representation, deductive and inductive reasoning, problem solving and theorem proving, learning, language and communications, expert systems, vision, machine vision, connectionist models. PREREQUISITES: MATH 1321 or 2701, and programming experience in some high level language. 4001-6001. Computer Programming. (3). Algorithmic problem solving, formalization of algorithms, stepwise refinement, the BASIC and FORTRAN programming languages: constants, variables, data types, arithmetic expressions, assignment statements, logical expressions, branching, iteration, subprograms and parameters, I/O, string manipulation, programming style. NOTE: Computer Science majors may not use COMP 4001 to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1211. 4002-6002. Accelerated Computer Programming. (3). Computers and computer programming. Principles of style and documentation: specification, algorithms, coding, and step-wise refinement. A Structured Language. Modularity. Recursive procedures. Programming of basic data structures including linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, and sets. Basic sort and search algorithms. Hashing. NOTE: Computer Science majors may not use COMP 4002 to fulfill degree requirements. Credit for either COMP 1900 or COMP 2150 precludes credit for COMP 4002. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1321. COREQUISITE: MATH 4701 or 6701. 4003-6003. Computer Organization and Assembly Language Programming. (3). Binary signals, combinatorial and sequential logic networks, computer structure, memory, control, processing, and I/O units; instruction types and execution. Computer machine language: symbolic coding and assembly systems: design, coding, testing, tracing, and debugging. NOTE: Computer Science majors may not use COMP 4003 to fulfill degree requirements. Credit for either COMP 3230 or COMP 3420 precludes credit for COMP 4003. PREREQUISITE: COMP 4002. 4030-6030. Introduction to Algorithms. (3). Asymptotic behavior of programs, basic paradigms in algorithm design: greedy, divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming. Analysis of efficiency and optimality of representative algorithms, including graph, pattern matching, numerical, randomized, and approximation algorithms. Approaches to lower bound analysis. Basic parallel algorithms. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150. 4040-6040. Programming Languages. (3). Comparative features, syntax, and applicability of high-level programming languages such as FORTRAN, COBOL, PASCAL, SNOBOL, LISP, ADA, C, and FORTH, data types, and data structures, control structures and dataflow, procedures, recursion, runtime environment, string manipulation, list processing, array processing, The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]documentation, programming style. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150. [W]. 4041-6041. Introduction to Compilers. (3). Finite state recognizers, lexical scanners, symbol tables, context-free languages and pushdown automata, context-free parsing methods such as recursive descent, LL(K), precedence, LR(K), SLR(K); language translation, generation and improvement of machine independent codes, inherited and synthesized attributes, syntax-directed translation schema. PREREQUISITES: COMP 3230, 4040, 4030. 4081-6081. Software Development. (3-6). Program design methodologies: formal methods, dataflow diagrams, strength and coupling measures; programmer teams, organization, and management, scheduling and estimating, walk-throughs, program libraries and documentation; organization, management and development of a large-scale software project. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITES: COMP 4040, 4030. 4242-6242. Introduction to Computer Graphics. (3). Characteristics of graphics I/O devices; 2D pictures, scaling, translation, rotation, and windowing; drawing histograms, simple maps, block diagrams, and flowcharts; curved lines, precision, quantization, and interpolation, plotting equations; 3D pictures, scaling, translation, rotation, and projections hidden line problem, non-Euclidean geometry, animation. PREREQUISITES: COMP 3420. 4270-6270. Introduction to Operating Systems. (3). Hierarchy of storage devices, I/O buffering, interrupts, channels; multiprogramming, processor and job scheduling, memory management: paging, segmentation, and virtual memory; management of asynchronous processes: interrupt procedure calls, process stateword and automatic switch instructions, semaphores, concurrency; security and recovery procedures. PREREQUISITES: COMP 3230, 3420, 4040, 4030. 4601-6601. Models of Computation. (3). Introduction to basic models of computers as basis of understanding and analysis of programming, computation, and complexity: machine models (finite-state, stack, and Turing machines; PRAMS, interconnection networks, neural networks); data models (graph and relational data models); logic models (grammars, recursive functions, lambda calculus, and predicate calculi). PREREQUISITE: MATH 2701 or PHIL 3621 or permission of instructor. 4711-6711. Introduction to Mathematical Logic. (3). (Same as MATH 4711). Propositional logic and truth table algorithms; first order calculus, terms, formulas, sentences, models, satisfaction, truth and logical validity; proof procedures and natural deduction; completeness and incompleteness theorems; applications to artificial intelligence; computer theorem proving, and verification of computer programs. PREREQUISITES: MATH 2701 or MATH 4701 or PHIL 3621 or permission of instructor. 4720-6720. Introduction to Artificial Intelligence. (3). (Same as ELEC 4720-6720). Fundamentals of programming in LISP. Central ideas of artificial intelligence, including heuristic search, problem solving, slot-and-filler structures and knowledge representation. PREREQUISITE: COMP 4040 or permission of instructor. 4730-6730. Expert Systems. (3). (Same as ELEC 4730-6730). Fundamentals of programming PROLOG, central ideas of expert system development, including knowledge representation, control structures, tools, knowledge acquisition, and knowledge engineering. PREREQUISITES: MATH 2701 and COMP 4030 or permission of instructor. 4901-6901. Individual Studies in Computer Science. (1-3). Directed individual study of selected areas of computer science. May be repeated by permission for a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4911-6911. Internship in Computer Science. (1-6). Practical experience in computer science. Students placed for some time with governmental or private organizations. Project must be approved and supervised by department faculty. Academic credit granted upon certification of the cooperating agency and acceptance by supervising faculty of student's written report. May be repeated for up to a total of 6 semester hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of supervising faculty member. (S/U). 4990-99-6990-99. Topics in Computer Science. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. PHILOSOPHYPROFESSOR NANCY D. SIMCO, Chair Room 327, Clement Humanities Building PHILOSOPHY (PHIL) 1101. Classical Issues In Philosophy. (3). (1111). Introduction to philosophical thought focused on emergence of philosophical inquiry in Classical period; examines influence of classical philosophical issues on science, religion and society, and their relevance to modern culture. [G]. 1102. Values and the Modern World. (3). Discussion of nature of value, development of traditional values in East and West, criticisms of traditional values and comparative assessment of most widely accepted value philosophies of modern world. [G]. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]1611. Elementary Logic. (3). Introduction to formal and informal reasoning that emphasizes logic as practical method for problem solving. PREREQUISITE: two units of high school algebra or one unit algebra and one unit geometry. 3001. Foundations of Western Philosophy: Classical Period. (3). Introduction to history of philosophy from 7th century B. C. through early Middle Ages structured around major themes that shaped classical period, attention to cultural and historical settings in which they arose and to which they contributed. Readings from philosophical and nonphilosophical sources. PREREQUISITES: PHIL 1101 or 1102, or permission of instructor. 3002. Foundations of Western Philosophy: Modern Period. (3). Introduction to history of philosophy from late Middle Ages through 19th century structured around major themes that shaped the modern period; attention to cultural and historical setting in which they arose and to which they contributed. Readings from philosophical and nonphilosophical sources. NOTE: While this is a continuation of PHIL 3001, it may be taken separately. PREREQUISITES: PHIL 1101 or 1102, or permission of instructor. 3411. Contemporary Moral Problems. (3). Such important contemporary moral issues as pornography and obscenity, capital punishment, abortion, human rights, "reverse discrimination," and civil disobedience. Underlying philosophical ideas for each issue considered and discussed. 3451. Existentialism. (3). Historical and comparative study of different existentialist writers and their relation to literature, religion, and psychology. Readings from such writers as Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Jaspers, Heidegger, Sartre, and Camus. 3511. Ethics. (3). Critical analysis of classical ethical theories and their application to problems of individual and society. PREREQUISITES: PHIL 1101, 1102, or permission of instructor. [W]. 3512. Science, Technology and Human Values. (3). Ethical problems growing out of development of modern science and technology; of such issues as relation of science to society, dehumanization of individual, impact of technology on environment, and modern warfare. Specific content of course varies each semester. 3514. Biomedical Ethics. (3). Discussion of ethical problems raised by contemporary medical practices and biological innovations from standpoint of contemporary ethical theories including abortion, euthanasia, behavior modification, human experimentation and genetic engineering. 3621. Intermediate Logic. (3). Symbolic logic, including propositional calculus, lower functional calculus, and related topics. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 1611 or permission of instructor. [C]. 3662. Philosophy of Science. (3). Basic features of science. Detailed analysis of problems of scientific procedure, theory construction, and verification both in physical and social sciences. PREREQUISITES: PHIL 1611 or permission of instructor. 3671. Aesthetics. (3). Introduction to philosophical theories and assumptions concerning nature and role of art and possibility of aesthetic evaluation. 3701. The Human and the Divine. (3). Examination of one or more major religious movements with regard to their origins, doctrines, and philosophical significance. Attention to such topics as contrasting conceptions of deity, worship, and role of religion in how we think about ourselves and our roles in society. 3721. Oriental Philosophy. (3). Philosophies of India, China, and Japan, with readings from primary sources of Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, and Shintoism. 3771. Philosophy in Literature. (3). Expression of philosophical ideas in literature. Readings from philosophers, playwrights, novelists and poets. 3880. Problems In Philosophy. (3). An intensive study of selected philosophical problems. May be repeated for up to 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 1101 or 1102, or permission of instructor. 4211-6211. Studies in Ancient Philosophy. (3). Readings from primary sources, supplemented by commentary from antiquity and modern scholarship, including Pre-Socratics, Plato, Aristotle, and Hellenistic period. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit with permission of the Departmental Undergraduate Advisor. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 3001 or permission of instructor. 4311-6311. Studies in Modern Philosophy. (3). Readings from major philosophers of 17th to early 19th centuries, supplemented by commentaries from modern and contemporary sources. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit with permission of the Departmental Undergraduate Advisor. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 3002 or permission of instructor. 4422-6422. Recent Anglo American Philosophy. (3). Major developments in philosophy in England and United States from 1900 to present, reading from such philosophers as Russell, Moore, Ayer, Wittgenstein, James, Dewey, Lewis, Quine and other contemporary authors. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 3002 or 4311 or permission of instructor. 4441-6441. Recent Continental Philosophy. (3). Major figures in 20th Century European thought, such movements as phenomenology, existentialism, structuralism, critical theory, and hermeneutics. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]with permission of the Departmental Undergraduate Advisor. 4551-6551. Social and Political Philosophy. (3). Major philosophical theories of man and the state; emphasis on concepts of society, culture, institutions, government, law, power, authority, rights, and obligation. Selected readings. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 1101 or 1102, or permission of instructor. 4632-6632. Advanced Logic. (3). Nature of axiomatic systems, techniques of formalization, and logical foundations of mathematics. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 3621 or permission of instructor. 4662-6662. Philosophy of the Social Sciences. (3). Consideration of the scientific character peculiar to social (rather than natural) sciences by virtue of their special subject matter, human beings and society. Topics such as meaning, understanding vs. explanation, rationality and the nature of social institutions. Selected readings. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 1101 or 1102, or permission of instructor.4711-6711. Philosophy of Religion. (3). (3711). Philosophical issues raised by religious experience including classical and contemporary arguments for and against existence of God, meaningfulness of religious language, and concepts of faith, evil and immortality. PREREQUISITE: PHIL 1101 or 1102, or permission of instructor. 4801-20-6801-20. Special Topics in Philosophy. (3). Epistemology, metaphysics, philosophy of language, philosophy of mind, logical theory, and axiology. Area to be covered appears in Schedule of Classes semester it is taught. May be repeated for maximum of 15 hours credit without changing an earlier grade if different areas are treated. PREREQUISITE: two courses in philosophy or permission of instructor. 4891. Senior Honors Thesis. (3). Directed reading and research culminating in a Senior Thesis. Thesis topic to be selected by student with approval of thesis director before honors students in philosophy. May be repeated in successive semesters for up to 6 hours credit. 4994. Reading and Research. (3). Individual directed study in area of special interest. May be repeated in successive semesters for up to 6 hours credit. PHYSICSPROFESSOR MICHAEL M. GARLAND, Chair Room 216, Manning Hall The PHYS 1010-1020 sequence is recommended for students with no previous background in physics. Physics 2110 and 2120 require knowledge of trigonometry (MATH 1212 or equivalent). Physics 2510 and 2520 require knowledge of calculus (MATH 1321 or equivalent). Physics 2510 and 2520 are required of all students in engineering curricula, strongly recommended for all majors in Physics, Chemistry, or Mathematics, and recommended for majors in Biology or Geology. Students preparing for medical, dental, or pharmacy school, and students preparing to teach science in secondary school must complete either PHYS 2510 and 2520 or PHYS 2110 and 2120 to meet professional school or state teacher licensure requirements. PHYS 2110 and 2120 are required for majors in Engineering Technology. PHYSICS (PHYS) 1001. Introductory Laboratory. (1). (1101 lab). Laboratory experiments and techniques to accompany PHYS 1010. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: PHYS 1010. [G]. 1002. Astronomy Laboratory. (1). (1102 lab). Laboratory experiments and techniques to accompany PHYS 1020. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: PHYS 1020. [G]. 1010. Introductory Physics. (3). (1101). Phenomenological introduction to physics for non-technical students, providing an understanding of natural laws of motion, structure of matter, heat, sound, electromagnetics, light, atomic and nuclear physics. NOTES: Credit will not apply toward major or minor in the sciences, nor will it satisfy any part of science requirements in pre- professional curricula. PHYS 1001 must be taken concurrently to satisfy the General Education requirement. Three lecture hours per week. [G]. 1020. Survey of Astronomy. (3). (1102). Motions of earth and moon; apparent motion of stars and planets; orbits and properties of bodies in the solar system; stellar distances, properties, and evolution; our galaxy and others. NOTE: PHYS 1002 must be taken concurrently to satisfy the General Education requirement. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 1010. [G]. 2001. General Physics Laboratory I. (1). (2111 lab). Laboratory experiments and techniques to accompany PHYS 2110. Two The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: PHYS 2110. 2002. General Physics Laboratory II. (1). (2112 lab). Laboratory experiments and techniques to accompany 2120. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: PHYS 2120. 2003. Physics for Science and Engineering Laboratory I. (1). (2511 lab). Laboratory experiments and techniques to accompany PHYS 2510. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: PHYS 2510. [G]. 2004. Physics for Science and Engineering Laboratory II. (1). (2512 lab). Laboratory experiments and techniques to accompany 2520. Two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: PHYS 2520. [G]. 2110. General Physics. (3). (2111). Mechanics, heat, and sound. This course is recommended for students in pre-medical programs. NOTE: For first-time enrollees, PHYS 2001 must be taken concurrently. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1212 or equivalent. 2120. General Physics. (3). (2112). Continuation of PHYS 2110. Includes magnetism, electricity, light, and modern physics. Recommended for students in pre-medical programs. NOTE: For first-time enrollees, PHYS 2002 must be taken concurrently. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2110. 2510. Physics for Science and Engineering. (3). (2511). Treatment of mechanics, heat, and sound, using methods of calculus. NOTE: For first-time enrollees, PHYS 2003 must be taken concurrently. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1321. [G].2520. Physics for Science and Engineering. (3). (2512). Continuation of PHYS 2510. Treatment of electromagnetism, optics, atomic and nuclear physics, using methods of calculus. NOTE: For first-time enrollees, PHYS 2004 must be taken concurrently. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2510. [G]. 3010. Introduction to Modern Physics. (3). Principles of relativity, quantum mechanics and atomic physics; selected topics in solid state, nuclear, and molecular physics. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2004/2520. [C]. 3011. Theoretical Physics. (3). Special mathematical techniques in solution of physical problems. Emphasis on vector calculus, boundary value problems, eigen-value problems, and Fourier series. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2004/2520. [C]. 3012. Theoretical Physics. (3). Continuation of PHYS 3011 covering complex variables, partial differential equations and special functions of physics. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3011. 3111. Mechanics. (3). Advanced classical mechanics; includes statistics, dynamics of particles, rigid bodies, fluid flow, work, energy, momentum, force fields, and harmonic motion. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2004/2520, MATH 3391.3112. Mechanics. (3). Continuation of PHYS 3111. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3111. 3211. Electricity and Magnetism. (3). Electromagnetic fields and waves, including such topics as dielectrics, induced electromotive force, magnetic energy, magnetic materials, Maxwell's equations, and reflection and refraction. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2004/2520, MATH 3391. 3212. Electricity and Magnetism. (3). Continuation of PHYS 3211. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3211. 3410. Environmental Physics. (3). Application of gas laws, transport laws, and heat transfer in environmental processes. Also includes environmental radiation (solar and terrestrial), energy system of atmosphere and hydrosphere, and energy resources and their impact upon environment. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2510/2003 and 2520/2004. 3510. Electronics. (4). Theory and application of electronic devices; emphasis on scientific instrumentation. Laboratory oriented course including basic semiconductors, integrated circuits, and microprocessors. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2004/2520 or 2002/2120 or equivalent. 3610. Experimental Techniques. (1). Introduction to independent experimentation including shop practices, glass blowing, and preparation of experimental data for computers. Some experiments of traditional nature related to physics courses. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2004/2520. 3611. Experimental Techniques. (1). Continuation of PHYS 3610. Three laboratory hours per week. 3720. Intelligent Systems--Human and Machine. (3). (Same as COMP 3720). Intelligence and artificial intelligence, the brain, the computer, limits of computation, knowledge representation, deductive and inductive reasoning, problem solving and theorem proving, learning, language, and communications, expert systems, vision, machine vision, connectionist models. PREREQUISITES: MATH 1321 or 2701, and programming experience in some high level computer language. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4000-09-6000-09. Special Topics in Physics. (3). Selected topics of current interest in physics not otherwise included in the curriculum. Three lecture hours or equivalent laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4021. Applied Radiation Physics. (3). Applied radiation and radioactivity. Includes types of radiation, radiation measurement interaction with matter, and biological effects. Radiation safety aspects emphasized. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2002/2120 or 2004/2520 and MATH 1321. 4040. Medical Physics. (3). Physics of sensory, respiratory, and circulatory systems; physical basis of radiology and nuclear medicine. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2002/2120 or 2004/2520, and college level course in physiology. 4051-6051. Astrophysics. (3). Application of radiation laws to interpretation of stellar structure. Introduction to radiative transfer in atmospheres. Spectral and luminosity classification of stars. Stellar populations and evolution. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2004, 2520, PHYS 3010 is recommended. 4110-6110. Nuclear Physics. (3). Properties of atomic nuclei, radioactive transitions, alpha, beta, and gamma decay. Binding energy, nuclear forces and nuclear models. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2004, 2520, PHYS 3010 is recommended.4211-6211. Optics. (3). Brief review of geometrical optics; concentration on wave optics. Includes polarization phenomena, interference, diffraction, coherence, holography, and scattering. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3211 or equivalent.4410-6410. Introduction to Quantum Theory. (3). Experimental basis of quantum theory; development of Schrodinger equation and its solution of simple systems; selected applications in atomic and molecular structure. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3111, 3211 or equivalent. 4510-6510. Thermodynamics. (3). Mathematical treatment of thermodynamics, including such topics as work, energy, enthalpy, entropy, reversible and irreversible processes, equilibria, specific heats, and phase transitions. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2004/2520, MATH 3391. [W]. 4610-6610. Solid State Physics. (3). Such topics as lattice vibrations, specific heats, electrical and thermal conductors in solids, magnetism. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010 or equivalent. [I]. 4910. Seminar. (1). Special projects, reports and investigation of current literature and research. May be repeated for maximum of 2 semester hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. (S/U). 4990. Research in Physics. (1-4). Collaboration with faculty member on problem of mutual interest. Two to eight laboratory or equivalent hours per week. May be repeated for maximum of 4 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 3010 and permission of instructor. Students expected to complete prospectus in collaboration with faculty member before registering. POLITICAL SCIENCE PROFESSOR KENNETH HOLLAND, Chair Room 427, Clement Humanities Building The political science areas of study are indicated by the second digit of the course number: General 1, American Government and Public Law 2, Comparative Government 3, Political Theory 4, International Relations 5, Public Administration 6, and Special 7 and 8. The prerequisite for all 3000 and 4000 level courses is either junior standing or the permission of the instructor. The use of a computer for instruction may be a component of courses offered in political science. However, no computer competence will be assumed unless specified in the course description. POLITICAL SCIENCE (POLS) 1100. American Government. (3). Development, structure, and processes of American system of government, including framing principles of U.S. Constitution and Bill of Rights; structure and roles of President, Congress, and Supreme Court, and citizen participation in governing. [G]. 1101. Introduction to Ancient Political Thought. (3). Inquiry into fundamental questions of ancient political thought, such as: Who should rule? What is justice? What is a good political order? What are the duties of citizens? What is the foundation of morality? [G]. 1102. Introduction to Modern Political Thought. (3). Inquiry into fundamental questions of modern political thought, such as origin of political society, proper rights of citizens, legitimate purposes of government, meaning of justice and good society. [G]. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]2301. Comparative Politics. (3). Comparison of institutions, issues, processes and policies in a variety of political systems ranging from European to Asian or African countries. [G]. 2501. International Relations. (3). Consideration of all major forms of political interaction (conflict competition, and cooperation) between and among global actors in world arena. [G]. 3100. Political Inquiry. (3). Research process in political science; emphasizes skills common to all subfields of political science-- familiarity with sources of data and documents, research design and general analytic skills. 3102. Religion and Politics. (3). Survey of role of religion and religious belief in politics. Emphasizes role of religious institutions in international arena and national politics and effects of religion on behavior and political beliefs. 3211. State and Local Governments. (3). Role of state governments in Federal System, political institutions, elections; organization, functions, and problems of state government; emphasis on Tennessee government. 3213. Introduction to the Study of Public Policy. (3). Public policy formulation process and some of the major substantive areas of policy concern in America. Emphasis on framework for identifying and analyzing substance of public problems, policy making, and policy administration. 3216. Political Parties and Elections. (3). Political parties and elections in the American political system; emphasis on party organization and activities, campaign strategies and techniques, voting behavior, and two-party system. 3302. Western European Government and Politics. (3). Comparative study of selected political systems of Western European States.3304. African Politics. (3). Comparative study of politics in Africa. Emphasis on current problems, with attention to historical, political, and socioeconomic dimensions. 3306. Latin American Government and Politics. (3). Forms of organization, functions and operations of government in Latin America. Emphasis on development of political institutions and present day trends. 3309. Government and Politics of Middle East. (3). Analysis of organization and functions of governments in area dominated by tenets of Islam, including examination of origin and development of Arab-Israeli conflict. 3401. Legal/Political Thought: Classical. (3). Question of justice and its relation to law and politics. Emphasizes confrontation between classical and modern views. 3402. Legal/Political Thought: Modern. (3). Question of justice and its relation to law and politics. Emphasizes confrontation between early and recent modernity. 3405. Introduction to Law and Jurisprudence. (3). Sources, functions, and processes of law. 3505. International Organizations. (3). Theories and concepts of organization of international polity, focused on the institutions, both formal and informal, through which much international interaction occurs. 3506. American Foreign Policy. (3). Domestic sources, implementation, and content of U.S. foreign policy. 3508. American National Security Policies. (3). Institutions, organizations, and policies charged with maintenance of peace and security; issues, problems, and paradoxes underlying current national security policies; arms-control proposals and objectives; political and ethical dilemmas caused by nuclear strategies and desire to avoid nuclear war. 3601. Public Administration. (3). Concepts and practices of organization and management in executive departments, national, state, and local; analysis of bureaucracy, administrative theory, budgeting, personnel, and administrative leadership. [W]. 3700-09. Special Topics in Contemporary Politics. (3). Topics of contemporary significance in politics. 4101-6101. Political Statistics. (3). Introduction to analysis of quantitative data, and statistical hypothesis testing in the fields of political science and public and health administration. [C]. 4211-6211. Constitutional Law: National Powers. (3). Relationships and controls of three branches and nature of division of power between nation and states; emphasis on role of Supreme Court as arbiter in constitutional system. [W]. 4212-6212. Constitutional Law: The Origins and Evolution of Civil Liberties in the United States. (3). Background, role, and legitimate extent of civil rights and liberties in the United States. [G]. 4216-6216. Interest Groups in American Politics. (3). Role and impact of interest groups within American political system, including group theory, tactics, and group relationships with various governmental institutions. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4217-6217. The Legislative Process. (3). Origins, organization, functions, and activities of the U.S. Congress. 4221-6221. Urban Administration. (3). Politics, administration, and public policy in urban context. Focus on administrative aspects of selected governmental policy-making processes; interrelationships of governments at various levels; urban challenges facing modern public administrators. 4224-6224. Urban Problems. (3). Selected problems in urban administration, politics, and policies. 4230-6230. Legislative Internship. (3-12). Supervised internship working with Tennessee General Assembly or other legislative bodies on current legislative programs. Seminar sessions to discuss and analyze problems with which interns are working. May be repeated for total of 12 credits. (S/U). PREREQUISITE: permission of department. 4231. Administrative Internship. (3-12). Supervised internship working with administrative branches of national, state, or local governments. Seminar sessions to discuss and analyze problems with which interns are working. May be repeated for total of 12 credits. PREREQUISITE: permission of department. 4305-6305. Post-Soviet Governments and Politics. (3). Analysis of institutions, issues, processes, and domestic policies of states comprising the former Soviet territory, with special emphasis on Russia and Ukraine. 4307-6307. Government and Politics of Communist China. (3). Institutions of government, political process, political elites, political groups and political socialization in Communist China. 4399. Research and Studies Abroad. (1-6). Supervised field research and studies in selected foreign countries. May be repeated up to 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: permission of the department. 4401-6401. Modern Political Ideologies. (3). Major ideologies affecting modern politics. Includes ideologies of democracy, communism, and facism as well as capitalism and socialism, racism, and nationalism, and ideologies of developing or "third" and "fourth world" nations. 4405-6405. Origin and Development of American Political Thought. (3). Origin and development of political thought in United States from colonial to present time; emphasis on relation between political thought and political institutions and practices. [G].4406. Strategies in Politics. (3). Study of politics and political strategy through use of social choice and game theories. PREREQUISITES: 15 hours of political science courses. 4414. African-American Political Thought. (3). Thought of representative African-Americans upon fundamental questions of justice, right, persuasion, power and accommodation with application to the American context. 4501-6501. Contemporary Problems in International Relations. (3). Studies or problems in area of world politics. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit with permission of instructor. [W]. 4502-6502. Post-Soviet Foreign Policies. (3). Basic concepts and methods of analyzing the international relations and foreign policies of post-Soviet territory, with special emphasis on Russia and Ukraine. 4504-6504. International Law. (3). Nature, scope, duties, rights, and evolutionary trends of international law. 4506-6506. Problems of American Foreign Policy. (3). Studies or problems of American foreign policy. May be repeated for a maximum 6 credit hours with permission of instructor. 4508-6508. Theories and Concepts in International Relations. (3). Theoretical approaches to study of international politics. Consideration of various schools of thought, methods, and substantive literatures. 4510-6510. International Political Economy. (3). Consideration of manner in which political processes affect and are affected by economic processes at global level. 4701. Policy Perspectives. (3). Senior capstone seminar requiring students to analyze and solve series of problems in public policy. Students draw upon each subfield of discipline and utilize variety of skills and methods in addressing issues of domestic, foreign and comparative policy. PREREQUISITE: 15 hours of political science courses. [I, W]. 4702. Independent Study. (1-3). Independent investigation of research problem or directed reading in selected area of political science under tutorial supervision of member of political science faculty. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of chairman. 4710-19-6710-19. Special Topics in Political Science. (3). Intensive study of selected topics in political science. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]OPEN LEARNING FIRE SERVICES PROGRAM (OLFSP) Admission to POLS 3610, 3611, 3612, 3613, 3614, and 3615 is restricted to students seeking the Bachelor of Professional Studies degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology through the University College. 3610. Personnel Management for the Fire Service. (3). Personnel practices and management procedures. Included are manpower planning, labor relations recruitment, selection, testing, performance appraisals, classification, motivation, politics, and management.3611. Disaster and Fire Defense Planning (3). Concepts and principles of community risk assessment, regional and cooperative procedures and plans, relationship of structural, climatic and topographical variables to group fires, conflagrations, and natural disasters, pre- and post-occurrence factors, communications, planning, organizing, coordination, command and logistics. 3612. Fire Prevention Organization and Management. (3). Examines and evaluates techniques, procedures, programs and agencies involved with fire prevention. Includes public and private fire prevention functions, licenses, permits, zoning, legal aspects, inspection, investigations, planning, arson, and incendiary analysis. 3613. Advanced Fire Administration. (3). Overview of organization and management in modern fire service. Includes management of equipment and personnel, fire department functions, planning, resource development, labor relations. 3614. Political and Legal Foundations of Fire Protection. (3). Legal basis for police power of government related to public safety. Legal limitations and responsibility. Liability of fire prevention organizations and personnel. Review of judicial decisions. [W]. 3615. The Community and The Fire Threat. (3). Sociological, economic and political characteristics of communities and their influence on fire problem. How to study community profiles and structures with consideration of economic, geographic, and sociological variables of fire threat. Examination of functional basis of community, diverse social roles of community agencies, and study of fire services as complex organization in community. PSYCHOLOGYPROFESSOR ANDREW MEYERS, Chair Room 202, Psychology Building PSYC 1101 or 1102 is prerequisite for all other courses In the Department of Psychology except 2201; both 1101 and 1102 are required of Psychology majors. PSYCHOLOGY (PSYC) 1101. General Psychology I. (3). Introduction to social aspects of psychology as a science of behavior. Topics include: personality, emotion, abnormal behavior, treatment of psychological disorders, social and developmental psychology, psychological testing and applied psychology. [G]. 1102. General Psychology II. (3). Introduction to the biological aspects of psychology as a science of behavior. Areas of study include learning, sensation and perception, physiological and comparative psychology and psycho-pharmacology. 2201. Deviance: Its Role In History and Culture. (3). Introduction to concept of deviance from prehistory to present. Emphasis on vilification and glorification of deviant behavior according to time, place and customs. [G]. 3001. Psychological Statistics. (4). (2301). Introduction to use of statistics in psychology, with emphasis on elementary theory of measurement and computation. Topics include measures of central tendency and variability, tests of significance, correlation procedures, and an introduction to multivariate analyses, analysis of variance, and nonparametric procedures. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. [C]. 3002. Introduction to Psychological Research. (4). (2302). Survey of logical and methodological considerations common to all research and an overview of the range of observation, measurement and laboratory procedures employed, and presentations of their own research by various members of the faculty. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PSYC 3001. [W].3101. Psychology of Personality. (3). Introduction to development and functioning of normal person. Variety of representative theoretical orientations examined; emphasis on psychoanalytic theories and other 20th century theoretical viewpoints. 3102. Abnormal Psychology. (3). Basic concepts of psychopathology with emphasis on the development of behavior deviations, description of various neurotic and psychotic reactions, and an introduction to methods of psychotherapy. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]3103. Child Psychology. (3). Patterns of cognitive, interpersonal, and behavioral development from birth through early adolescence. Psychological effects of genetic, organic and environmental influences as the child matures. 3104. Adult Psychology. (3). Patterns of cognitive, interpersonal and behavioral development from late adolescence to old age. Theoretical and empirical literature pertaining to such topics as marital and vocational choices, parenting, the midlife crises, and death.3106. Social Psychology. (3). Analysis of behavior and experience of individuals in group settings, examining such topics as leadership, social influence, and intergroup and intragroup relations. 3303. Thinking and Cognitive Processes. (3). Overview of fields of cognitive psychology and cognitive science, including perception and attention, short- and long-term memory, language, problem solving, reasoning, and decision making. 3304. Perceptual Psychology. (3). Introduction to empirical and theoretical issues in perception. Emphasis on classical and contemporary issues and approaches to perception pertaining to how information from environment is transformed, organized, represented and used by the perceiver in adapting to physical world. 3305. Learning and Memory. (3). Survey and analysis of basic processes involved in acquisition and retention of new behaviors and alteration of existing behaviors in animals and humans. Examination of central theoretical concepts and issues in learning. 3306. Physiological Psychology. (3). Survey of physiological processes underlying sensation, perception, motivation and emotion, motor systems, unlearned and learned behavior patterns, memory and other psychological functions. 3307. Animal Behavior. (3). Synthesis of comparative psychological and ethological approaches to study of animal behavior. Such topics as behavior genetics, species specific behaviors, behavior as a basis for phyletic classification, and major behavioral dimensions related to phylogenesis. 3501. Behavior and Environmental Survival. (3). Role that techniques and content of behavior science has in helping address environmental problems facing mankind. 3502. Environmental Behavior Modification. (3). Application of behavioral-change techniques for purpose of environmental preservation. Emphasis upon behavior-analysis approach to assessment and modification of behavior. Examination of this and other approaches to problems such as resource conservation, pollution, and population. 3505. Psychological Tests and Measurement. (3). Introduction to psychometric concepts, statistics, principles, and practices of test and scale construction, evaluation, use, and interpretation. 3506. Human Sexuality. (3). Survey of existing knowledge of human sexual behavior, including physiological, anatomical, psychological and cultural components. Focuses primarily on normative sexual functioning; such topics as sexual deviation, sexual dysfunctions, and types of treatment are also considered. PREREQUISITES: PSYC 1101 and 1102. 3507. Alcohol, Drugs and Behavior. (3). Survey of major drugs of abuse, their mode of action, and their behavioral effects, both acute and chronic. Major theories of etiology and maintenance of drug abuse and review of prominent strategies for prevention, intervention and treatment. 3508. Industrial and Organizational Psychology. (3). Application of psychological concepts and methods to phenomena in industrial and organizational settings, with emphasis on personnel selection, classification and evaluation, employee attitudes, morale and motivation, and psychological analysis of the condition of work. 4010-29. Special Topics In Psychology. (1-3). Topics varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4030. Issues in Psychotherapy Research. (3). Examination of research evidence pertaining to basic questions about psychotherapy and its effectiveness. Readings include both classic contributions and current research findings. 4101. History of Psychology. (3). Comprehensive survey and critical analysis of the philosophical and scientific antecedents of contemporary psychology. PREREQUISITE: PSYC 3001, 3002, and six hours in 3100 and six hours in 3300 series. Enrollment reference granted to seniors in their final semester. [I]. 4503. Special Problems in Psychology. (1-3). Student, under faculty supervision, may (a) read intensively in specialized area, (b) conduct psychological research and/or (c) obtain field experience in community institutions where psychological principles are applied. NOTE: 4503 and 4504 may be taken for a combined total of 9 hours, no more than 6 of which may be with the same faculty member. PREREQUISITE: permission of the department. (S/U). 4504. Directed Research. (3). Majors receive first hand research experience under tutorship of individual faculty member. Students may work individually or in small groups depending upon project. Projects conform to set of guidelines available from department. NOTE: PSYC 4503 and 4504 may be repeated for a combined total of up to 9 hours, 6 with any one faculty member. PREREQUISITE: permission of department. (S/U). The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]SOCIOLOGY AND SOCIAL WORK PROFESSOR REBECCA F. GUY, Chair Room 231, Clement Humanities Building PROFESSOR MORRIS D. KLASS, Director Division of Social Work Room 229, Clement Humanities Building Sociology 1111 Is a prerequisite for all other courses in sociology except 2100 and 2101. SOCIOLOGY (SOCI) 1111. Introductory Sociology. (3). Introduction to concepts, methods and theoretical perspectives in sociology. Basic principles of sociological reasoning introduced through lectures, reading assignments, and micro-computer instruction. [G]. 1112. Contemporary Social Problems. (3). Sociological approaches to understanding contemporary social problems; magnitude, causes, consequences, and possible solutions to various problems such as poverty, racism, sexism, problems of aging, crime, and population.2100. Sociology of International Development. (3). Social change in an increasingly interdependent world; introduction to development theory and how relations among countries condition changes within them; cultural conflict, social inequality, education and ideology, industrialization, urbanization, multinational corporations, population problems, quality of life indicators. [G]. 2101. The Family in Global Perspective. (3). (Same as CSED 2101). Introduction to family as a primary, global, social institution. Contributions sociology, anthropology, and home economics have made to understanding how and why family systems vary worldwide and common bonds and problems facing families in modern societies. [G]. 3311. Social Statistics. (3). Application of basic statistical concepts and techniques to social analysis. Description of data for single variables and for relationships between two variables. Tests of significance for relationships between two variables involving sample data. Use of packaged statistical computer programs for single- and two-variable analysis. [C]. 3322. Methods of Social Research. (3). Overview of process of social research; selection and formulation of problem, design of research, methods of investigation, analysis and interpretation of data, and report preparation. Emphasis on data collection techniques. PREREQUISITE: SOCI 3311. 3401. Social Inequality. (3). Unequal distribution of power, property, and prestige and social relations of dominance and subordination in the American class system; how and why this inequality develops and persists; differences in life chances and options across different social classes. 3420. Sociology of the South. (3). Political economy and major institutions in the South and implications for different races and classes. Attention to the South since World War II, including the Civil Rights movement. 3422. Racial and Ethnic Minorities: A Socio-Historical Approach. (3). Comparative study of racial and ethnic minorities in United States, how inequality is institutionalized in such areas as employment, education, political participation, and social relations; emphasis on how subordinate groups resist oppression and initiate social change. [G]. 3432. Sociology of Gender. (3). Traditional conceptions of masculinity and femininity and modifications of these resulting from economic, demographic and cultural changes. Socialization for masculine and feminine roles and variations in these roles throughout life cycle. Class, race, occupational and other institutional differences in sex roles. 3501. Sociology of Deviant Behavior. (3). Problems in applying definitions of deviance in everyday life; theories about causes and consequences of deviance critically reviewed; types of deviance analyzed, ranging from interpersonal violence to various forms of sexual expression. 3541. Criminology. (3). (3521). (Same as CJUS 3541). Nature and significance of criminality; etiology of illegal behavior; trends in social reactions to crime and criminals. Evolution of biological, psychological, and sociological theories of criminal behavior. 3701. Individual and Society. (3). Basic theory and research dealing with study of human behavior in social situations; emphasis on communication processes, socialization, social roles, social self, and interaction in group contexts. 3801. Sociology of Organizations and Bureaucracies. (3). Analysis of bureaucratic organizations in modern society and effects on individual and group behavior; benefits of industrial-technological society and costs of bureaucratization and centralization of organizational life; current issues concerning individual autonomy, organizational productivity, and control. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]3820. Sociology of Education. (3). Sociological analysis of education and its functions, school and community relationships; problems of social change and educational adjustments. 3831. Marriage and the Family. (3). American family patterns, including mate-selection, man-woman relationships, marital satisfaction, parent-child communication, divorce, alternative lifestyles and other contemporary issues. 3860. Sociology of Religion. (3). Role of religion in modern society; relationship between religion and other spheres of life; sociological examination of cults, sects, churches, and religious movements; causes and consequences of religious beliefs and practices.3940. Social Change. (3). Sociological analysis of theory, nature, meaning, and consequences of social change. 4210. Rise of Sociological Theory. (3). Nature, grounds, and explanatory powers of various forms of sociological theory; analysis of bases for scientific and philosophical assumptions and social and political contexts; major theorists including Durkheim, Marx, Weber, Simmel. 4211-6211. Contemporary Sociological Theory. (3). Major frameworks of 20th century sociological thought, including theoretical schools of functionalism, exchange theory, critical theory, symbolic interactionism, phenomenological sociology, and ethnomethodology; current social and political trends and issues. 4312-6312. Intermediate Social Statistics. (3). Multivariate analysis of social data. Use of computer programs for data management and statistical analysis. PREREQUISITES: SOCI 3311, 3322, or equivalent, or permission of the instructor. 4420. Racial Inequality. (3). Relations of dominance and subordination in the United States. Focus on social and political experiences of African Americans, Asian Americans, and Latinos, especially strategies employed to resist oppression and reduce inequality.4442. Sociology of Poverty. (3). Structural sources of inequality and how experiences of poverty are shaped by race, gender and age. [W]. 4460. Black and White Women in the South. (3). How history of South and political-economic structure has shaped black and white women's work, family, community activities, and relationships; emphasis on collaboration and competition aspects, identity issues, and demographic characteristics; focus on the Memphis area. [W]. 4541-6541. Sociology of Aging. (3). Ageism in sociocultural contexts; current beliefs, values, and norms regarding aging; structural location of aging in society; and implications of ageism in employment, poverty, private and institutional housing, crime, physical illness and mental illness. 4631. Cities in Change. (3). Historical transformation of urban communities; effects of urbanism on behavior; patterns of class, race and ethnic segregation in American cities; growth and decline of cities in relation to social, political, and economic forces; global patterns of urbanization: causes and consequences. [W]. 4641. Sociology of the Global Environment. (3). Examination of interactions between physical environment in which we live and human societies which we have created. Emphasis on crises of global environment and efforts toward sustainable development. 4642. Culture and Modernization of East Asia. (3). Sociological examination of impact of cultural traditions embedded in East Asian worldview on economic modernization of Japanese, Korean, and Chinese societies. Emphasis on significance of alternative paths to global economy. 4702. Personal Relations and Primary Groups. (3). Principles and dynamics of personal relationships within context of groups. Surveys social psychological theories of origin, maintenance and dissolution of relationships. Applied approach. Includes sociation in general and emphasizes varieties of love. 4842-6842. Sociology of Occupations and Professions. (3). Sociological analysis of division of labor, occupational groupings, career patterns, and professional associations in modern American society; meaning of work. 4851. Medical Sociology. (3). Examination of human arrangements and their human legitimations within which variations in human biology are discovered, defined, diagnosed, described, and disposed of as "disease." 4852. Sociology of Mental Illness. (3). Examination of human arrangements and their legitimations within which "incomprehensible" behavior is discovered, defined, diagnosed, described, and disposed of as "mental illness." 4900-09-6900-09. Special Topics in Sociology. (3). Special areas of sociology not otherwise included in the curriculum. 4912. Directed Individual Study. (1-6). Individually directed advanced reading and/or research in special areas of interest. NOTE: Course may be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of department chair. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4923. Social Institutions and the Life Cycle. (3). Analysis of social institutions from life cycle perspective; social institutions studied from perspective of their specific function for and appropriateness to specific stages of life cycle development. [W]. 4999. Senior Thesis Seminar. (3). Analysis of process and practice of sociological inquiry. Emphasis on integration of sociological theory, research methods, statistics, and knowledge of a substantive area through formulation and completion of original research project. Research problem will be formulated and executed by student with consultation and supervision of instructor. PREREQUISITES: SOCI 3311, 3322, 4210 or 4211, and nine upper division hours. [I,W]. SOCIAL WORK (SWRK) 2911. Social Response to Human Need. (3). Introduction to historical and contemporary issues related to American social welfare systems; analysis of impact on vulnerable populations, value implications, change processes, and program components. 3901. Social Work Profession and Practice. (3). Overview of social work as profession, including introduction to its value base, knowledge base, and skill base; roles of social workers in social service agencies. Volunteer experience required. 3902. Human Development and Social Interaction. (3). Overview of human development from birth through old age; focus on interaction of biological, psychological, and socio-cultural factors; major developmental theories, transitional phases, and variant lifestyles; relevance to social functioning and social work practice. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 2911 or 3901, or instructor's permission. 3903. Models of Social Intervention. I. (3). Overview of traditional social casework methodology; emphasis on theoretical approaches and schools of practice; beginning applications of case study model. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 2911, 3901, 3902, or director's permission. 3904. Models of Social Intervention II. (3). Continuation of SWRK 3903, with emphasis on application of theory through assessment, intervention planning, use of community resources, and functions of social workers. Extensive case analysis. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 3903. 3905. Dynamics of Professional Interviewing. (3). Models, techniques and skills in relationship building, types and styles of interviews; interaction patterns between client and social worker; observational and experiential activities, role-playing and videotape. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 3903. COREQUISITE: SWRK 3904. 3930. Introduction to Social Work Research. (3). History and methods of social work research including scientific thinking, statistical operations, and systematic approaches to acquisition of social work knowledge. PREREQUISITES: SWRK 2911 and SOCI 3311.4830. Field Instruction in Social Work I. (3). Supervised internship in social service agency or program. Minimum of 200 clock hours required. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 3904 and director's permission. COREQUISITES: SWRK 4840, SWRK 3905. 4831. Field Instruction in Social Work II. (3). Continuation of supervised internship. Minimum of 200 clock hours required. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 4830, and director's permission. COREQUISITE: SWRK 4841. 4840. Integrative Field Seminar I. (2). Integration of social work theory with field instruction experiences. PREREQUISITE: permission of director. Both SWRK 4840 and 4841 must be taken to meet the General Education Integrative requirement. COREQUISITE: SWRK 4830. [I]. 4841. Integrative Field Seminar II. (2). Continuation of SWRK 4840. PREREQUISITE: permission of director. Both SWRK 4840 and 4841 must be taken to meet the General Education Integrative requirement. COREQUISITE: SWRK 4831. [I]. 4911-19. Special Topics in Social Work. (3). Topics of contemporary interest in social work profession and in social welfare practices. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 2911 or permission of instructor. 4932. Models of Social Intervention III. (3). Theory and application of group dynamics concepts as applied to individual in group, committee and community structures and functions, roles of social worker in these settings. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 2911 or 3901.4933. Directed Individual Study. (1-4). Directed advanced reading, field study and/or research in special areas of social work, not otherwise provided in curriculum. NOTE: No more than 4 hours may be taken in any one semester. May be repeated for maximum of 6 semester hours credit. PREREQUISITE: Social Work major and permission of director, Division of Social Work. 4934. Child Welfare Policy and Services. (3). Historic overview and contemporary application of child welfare policy; problems in policy development; contemporary American child welfare services in both public and private domains. PREREQUISITE: SWRK 2911. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]ROTC Programs AEROSPACE STUDIES LIEUTENANT COLONEL JOSEPH C. BRYANT Professor of Aerospace Studies Room 404, Jones Hall The Department of Aerospace Studies provides a four-year program of instruction for all qualified U.S. citizens, male and female, divided into two phases, each of two years duration. The first, termed the General Military Course, offers instruction in the foundation of leadership and Aerospace-age citizenship. The second, termed the Professional Officer Course, builds upon these foundations in developing upperclassmen who are to become Air Force officers and serve on active duty upon graduation and commissioning. Students may apply for the two-year or four-year program, or they may enroll one year before applying for the two- year program. Instruction in Aerospace Studies has been an important phase of the curriculum at The University of Memphis since 1951. Active duty Air Force personnel, approved by the university president, are detailed by the Department of the Air Force to administer the instructional program. Air Force officers serve under appointment by the university as Professor or Assistant Professor of Aerospace Studies.THE GENERAL MILITARY COURSE (GMC) The two-year (4 semesters) General Military Course consists of one hour a week of classroom instruction and one and one-half hours a week in Leadership Laboratory. Textbooks are furnished by the Air Force without charge. Air Force uniforms are furnished and must be properly worn and kept in good condition. Cadets who successfully complete the GMC may apply for admission to the Professional Officer Course. THE PROFESSIONAL OFFICER COURSE (POC) The Professional Officer Course provides instruction and systematic training to selected eligible students who desire to qualify as officers in the United States Air Force while pursuing their academic studies at the university. Successful completion of the requirements for the POC and for a baccalaureate degree leads to a commission in the United States Air Force as a Second Lieutenant. To be eligible for selection to the POC, a student must have at least two years remaining at the university (undergraduate, graduate, or a combination). Final selection is based on academic standing, leadership potential, percentile score on the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test, and physical qualifications. All eligible POC members receive an incentive payment of up to $1,000 per semester which is applied toward university tuition and textbook costs. In addition, members are furnished ROTC course textbooks without charge, receive a subsistence allowance of $100.00 per month and are issued uniforms provided by the Air Force. THE TWO-YEAR PROGRAM All students who meet qualifying criteria may apply for selection to the Professional Officer Course under the Two-Year Program if they are not in the Four-Year Program. Processing of applications for the POC begins in the fall of each year. Application may be submitted through March 15. If selected, the student will attend a six-week field training program during the summer preceding entry into the POC. Graduates of the six-week field training are enrolled in the POC with the same status as cadets in the four-year program.LEADERSHIP LABORATORY This lab is designed around a microcosm of the U.S. Air Force. It gives the cadets the opportunity to develop their leadership potential while allowing the staff to make evaluations based on actual managerial and leadership situations. AIR FORCE ROTC COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM Scholarships paying full tuition and fees, book allowance, and transportation to Memphis, and a tax free subsistence allowance of $100.00 per month are available to entering freshmen and university students who are competitive academically and will enroll in the Air Force ROTC program. Details concerning qualifications and applications can be obtained from the Department of Aerospace Studies. NOTE: Several loan funds are also available to students enrolled in AFROTC. For more information, contact the department staff.FIELD TRAINING Field Training is offered during the summer months at selected Air Force bases throughout the United States. Students in the four- year program participate in four weeks of Field Training (AERO 3211), usually between their sophomore and junior years. Students The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]applying for entry into the two-year program must successfully complete six weeks of Field Training (AERO 3212) prior to enrollment in the Professional Officer Course. MINOR IN AEROSPACE STUDIES Upon successful completion of 18 semester hours in Aerospace Studies with a minimum grade of C, a cadet may apply for a minor in Aerospace Studies. SUPPLEMENTAL COURSES PROGRAM The AFROTC Supplemental Courses Program (SCP) exists to enhance the career utility and officer performance of persons commissioned through AFROTC. The program consists of required and recommended college/university-taught courses. Cadets must successfully complete the required supplemental courses in addition to all Aerospace Studies courses. General Military Course (GMC): Scholarship cadets must successfully complete a course in English composition. Additionally, they are encouraged to take a course in speech. Four-year scholarship cadets must satisfactorily complete the English composition course by the end of the GMC. GMC cadets receiving scholarships of less than four years duration will have two academic years to complete the English composition course. Failure to satisfactorily complete the required supplemental course in the specified period of time will result in termination of scholarship entitlements. Non-scholarship four-year GMC cadets, two-year program applicants, and persons not required to complete the GMC need not take the GMC supplemental courses before POC entry. However, successful completion of GMC supplemental courses may enhance their chances for POC selection. AFROTC students who accept a scholarship must agree to successfully complete at least one semester of college instruction in a major Indo-European or Asian language before commissioning. A major Indo-European or Asian language is one defined as such by the academic institution's foreign language department. Cadets may meet the foreign language requirement by completing a course or by demonstrating proficiency. Professional Officer Course: cadets must successfully complete a course in mathematical reasoning before commissioning. Ideally, this course should include the acquisition of a specific skill, for example, statistics, computer science, or calculus. Course Descriptions AEROSPACE STUDIES (AERO) 1111. Air Force Today. (1). Study of world military forces through treatment of U. S. Department of Defense and doctrine, mission and functions of United States Air Force. One class hour per week and one and one-half hours of Leadership Laboratory.*[G].1112. Air Force Today. (1). Continuation of AERO 1111. One class hour per week and one and one-half hours of Leadership Laboratory.*[G].2211. The Development of Air Power. (1). Historical perspective of airplane and its contribution to national defense; starting before Wright Brothers and continuing through the Korean conflict. One class hour per week and one and one-half hours of Leadership Laboratory.*[G]. 2212. The Development of Air Power. (1). Continuation of AERO 2211 begins at the end of the Korean conflict and continues to the present. One class hour per week and one and one-half hours of Leadership Laboratory.*[G]. PROFESSIONAL OFFICER COURSE 3211. Aerospace Studies Four-Week Field Training. (4). Twenty-eight day course conducted during summer at active installation of USAF; consists of approximately 185 hours of instruction in Air Force base functions, leadership, physical training, Air Force environment, career orientation, and survival training. Students assigned to groups of twenty-five and individually counseled and evaluated on their performance. Emphasis on self-initiated leadership activities. PREREQUISITE: AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212, or equivalent. 3212. Aerospace Studies Six Week Field Training. (6). Forty-two day course conducted during summer at active installation of USAF; Consists of approximately 258 hours of instruction on role of military forces, organization of Defense Department, instruments of national security, Air Force base functions, leadership, physical training and Air Force environment. Students are assigned to groups of approximately twenty-five and individually counseled and evaluated on their performance. 3311. Air Force Leadership and Total Quality Management. (3). Professionalism, leadership and management. Includes The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]meaning of professionalism, and professional responsibilities; military justice system; leadership theory, functions and practices; management principles and functions; problem solving; and management, tools, practices and controls. Three class hours per week and one and one-half hours of Leadership Laboratory.* 3312. Air Force Leadership and Total Quality Management. (3). Continuation of AERO 3311. Three class hours per week and one and one-half hours of Leadership Laboratory.* 4411. National Security Forces In Contemporary American Society. (3). Fundamental issues and requirements of national security. Extensive study of civil-military relations, nature of international environment and strategic requisites for defense. Three class hours per week and one and one-half hours of Leadership Laboratory.* 4412. National Security Forces In Contemporary American Society. (3). Continuation of AERO 4411. Three class hours per week and one and one-half hours of Leadership Laboratory.* *Leadership Laboratory. Revolves around cadet corps, a microcosm of an Air Force organization. Opportunity for actual leadership training experiences as it is largely cadet planned and operated. Additionally, staff uses it as a means to evaluate and develop leadership potential. One and one-half hours per week. MILITARY SCIENCE MAJOR CHARLES S. BRENNAMAN, Director Professor of Military Science, Room 107, Annex IV, Bldg 505 The Department of Military Science provides a four-year program of instruction designed to provide qualified college men and women with practical experience in the art of organizing, motivating and leading others. The program is divided into two courses each of two years duration. The first, called the Basic Course, offers instruction in leadership skills, soldiering skills, and the role and use of armed forces. The second, called the Advanced Course, builds on the Basic Course, offers practical leadership experience, and prepares the student for commissioning as an Army officer. Students may apply for the four-year program, which can be completed in three years with department permission, or for the two-year program. Department faculty and staff are active duty Army personnel detailed by Department of the Army and approved by the university president. The Army officers are appointed by the university as Professor or Assistant Professor of Military Science. Students interested in enrolling in any Military Science course should contact the Department of Military Science. THE BASIC COURSE The Basic Course, two years in duration, consists of two semesters of one hour per week of classroom instruction and two semesters of two hours per week of classroom instruction. Courses are designed to be taken in the following order: 1100, 1110, 1115, 1120, 2100, 2105, 2115, 2120. All textbooks are furnished, without charge, by the department. All offered courses count as elective credit toward the total university required hours for a degree. ARMY 2115/2120 meets the physical activity portion of the General Education Fitness and Wellness requirement. The Basic Course is designed for incoming freshmen. All other students are eligible to enter and may compress the Basic Course requirements into one year, with department permission. There is NO MILITARY OBLIGATION for enrolling in the Basic Course. Unless specified in the course description, students in the Basic Course are not required to wear uniforms or attend leadership laboratory. Students who successfully complete the Basic Course may apply for entry into the Advanced Course. THE ADVANCED COURSE The Advanced Course prepares qualified, selected male and female students for commissioning as Army officers while they continue to pursue academic degrees. Upon graduation, students may then serve in the Regular Army, Army Reserve, or Army National Guard in a variety of career fields. To be eligible for the Advanced Course, the student must have completed the Basic Course or equivalent, (see 2-year program), be enrolled in the university fulltime, have at least two years remaining at the university (undergraduate or graduate), and be a U.S. citizen. Final selection is based on demonstrated academic performance, leadership potential, a qualifying score on the Officer Selection Battery of Tests, and physical qualifications. The Advanced Course is two years in duration. During each of four semesters, the student attends three hours per week of classroom instruction and two hours per week of leadership laboratory. It is composed of ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4110, 4111, 4115, and 4121, in sequence. All students receive a monthly subsistence allowance of $100.00, tax-free, while enrolled in classes. All textbooks, uniforms, and equipment are furnished, without charge, by the department. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]Students are given the opportunity to develop their leadership skills through the leadership laboratory, field training, and the Advanced Camp. The leadership laboratory is designed around a cadet structure that parallels a U.S. Army unit. Field training exercises are conducted over a weekend and are an extension of the laboratory. Students are also required to attend a six-week Advanced Camp during the summer between their two years in the Advanced Course. Advanced Camp is held at a U.S. Army post. Students are paid for the six weeks at the rate of one-half the pay of a Second Lieutenant and are furnished quarters and rations as well as transportation to and from the post. All required courses count as elective credit toward the total university required hours for a degree. Completion of the Advanced Course meets the Fitness and Wellness General Education requirement. THE TWO-YEAR PROGRAM The Two-Year Program provides the opportunity to those students who did not enroll in the Four-Year Program to enroll in the Advanced Course. There are three methods for students to receive placement credit for the Basic Course and enter directly into the Advanced Course. Students who meet qualifying criteria may receive credit for the Basic Course by attending the six-week Basic Camp at Fort Knox, Kentucky, during the summer. NO MILITARY OBLIGATION is incurred by the student by attending the Basic Camp. Students are paid for the six weeks at the rate of one-half the pay of a Second Lieutenant and are furnished quarters and rations as well as transportation to and from, or a mileage allowance for use of their own automobile. Successful completion of the Basic Camp will make the student eligible to enter the Advanced Course. Interested students should contact the Department of Military Science anytime during the academic year preceding the summer they desire to attend the camp. Students who have completed Army Basic Combat Training and Advanced Individual Training or who have completed a minimum of three years of Army Junior ROTC in high school may be granted credit for the Basic Course by the Professor of Military Science and would then be eligible for entry into the Advanced Course, provided all other requirements are met. These students, as well as Basic Camp graduates, selected for enrollment in the Advanced Course are enrolled with the same status as cadets in the Four-Year Program.THE MINOR A minor in Military Science can be obtained through meeting the following requirements: 19 semester hours consisting of ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, 4121, and either ARMY 2105 or HIST 3811. SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM Scholarships paying tuition, maintenance fee and other fees, a book allowance, and a tax-free subsistence allowance of $100.00 per month are available to university freshmen and sophomores who are competitive academically and who will enroll in the Army ROTC program. Applications are taken from December to February each academic year. Details concerning qualifications can be obtained from the Department of Military Science. SIMULTANEOUS MEMBERSHIP PROGRAM The Simultaneous Membership Program is a voluntary program under which qualified cadets in the Advanced Course may concurrently join an Army National Guard unit. The program is designed to provide cadets with additional opportunities for leadership development and, at the same time, provide them with practical unit experience as Second Lieutenant. Cadets serve in an officer- trainee capacity and participate in regular unit drills held one weekend per month and two weeks per summer. Cadets are paid for all drills at the rate of a sergeant. This pay is in addition to the regular monthly subsistence for Army ROTC cadets. Details concerning qualifications and information on availability of allocations can be obtained from the Department of Military Science. PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION Professional Military Education is a component of the academic preparation for students desiring to pursue a commission as an Army officer. It consists of two essential parts, a baccalaureate degree and completion of university-taught, undergraduate courses from each of five designated fields of study. The fields of study are written communications, human behavior, military history, computer literacy, and math reasoning. Military Science students enrolled in the Advanced Course are also encouraged to take management and national security studies. Students may substitute approved alternative courses for any of these requirements. This is a requirement for students enrolled in the Advanced Course only, though applicable courses taken during enrollment in the Basic Course or before enrollment may still meet the requirement. Related required and elective courses taken for university degree requirements may also satisfy the requirement. Some of the Professional Military Education required courses may be waived by the Professor of Military Science if they would interfere with a student's required curriculum for award of a particular university degree. SPONSORED ACTIVITIES The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]The Department of Military Science sponsors the following voluntary extracurricular activities to provide students in both the Basic Course and Advanced Course with additional opportunities to develop leadership in conjunction with extending the student's knowledge of military skills: 1. The Army ROTC Tiger Color Guard--Members develop skill in standard drill and military ceremonies. The team provides color guards at The University of Memphis athletic events and drills competitively against ROTC teams of other colleges and universities. The team is open to individuals enrolled in any Military Science course. 2. U of M Ranger Company--Members develop skills associated with patrolling, mountaineering, survival training, and other similar activities. The Ranger Company is an adventure-type unit under the direction of Army ROTC Advanced Course cadets. Membership is open to all interested full-time students. Course Descriptions MILITARY SCIENCE (ARMY) NOTE: Leadership laboratory provides the forum for the reinforcement of formal classroom instruction. Lab revolves around the practical application of the theories of leadership with a "hands-on" approach to learning. Provides opportunities for cadets to exercise leadership, planning, and management skills as well as covering independent topics including: rappelling, drill and ceremonies, basic rifle marksmanship, first aid, and orienteering. 1100. Leadership Laboratory. (1). Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: ARMY 1110. 1110. Introduction to Military Skills. (1). Introduction to Army ROTC with hands-on approach through several basic military skills. Lectures and practical exercises in following areas: rappelling, communications, weapons, first aid, and land navigation. There is no military obligation. COREQUISITE: ARMY 1100. 1115. Leadership Laboratory. (1). Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: ARMY 1120. 1120. Leadership and Confidence Building. (2). Basic military first aid skills; lectures and practical exercises in basic emergency treatment for fractures, lacerations, heat and cold injuries; cardiopulmonary resuscitation. THIS COURSE DOES NOT PROVIDE RED CROSS OR ANY OTHER CERTIFICATION. COREQUISITE: ARMY 1115. 2100. Leadership Laboratory. (1). Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: ARMY 2105. 2105. American Military History. (3). Developments since colonial period; emphasis on background and growth of national military and naval establishments, military and naval thought, difficulties accompanying modernization and assumption of global responsibilities, and problem of relationship between civilian and military-naval sectors in democracy. COREQUISITE: ARMY 2100. 2115. Leadership Laboratory. (1). (2110 lab). Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: ARMY 2120. [G]. 2120 Fundamental Survival Skills. (1). (2110). Basic Military Skills including map reading, military first aid skills and small unit leadership. One hour weekly classroom instruction. COREQUISITE: ARMY 2115. [G]. 2140. Small Unit Tactics I. (2). Emphasis on preparation of the individual for combat. Preparation of potential leaders in combat through study of the knowledge and skills needed by an individual soldier. Skill developed in planning and organizing by combat patrols. Course includes a series of field practicums. 2145. Small Unit Tactics II. (2). Advanced concepts in reconnaissance, raid, and ambush patrolling techniques, extended patrolling operations, and application techniques for specialized equipment. Leadership skills through student-led patrols. Includes series of field practicums. Expands material taught in ARMY 2140 but may be taken independently of 2140. 2170. Tactics Strategy and War Games. (2). 2190. Camp Training. (1-6). Six-week training normally taken during the summer between the second and third years by those students who have not taken previous ROTC training, or who have not completed the required basic military science courses for advanced course enrollment. Training conducted at designated U.S. Army installation and includes practical experience in leadership, small unit tactics, weapons drill, and communications under field conditions. After completion of camp, student required to complete satisfactorily an examination administered by Military Science Department. Student must register for this course following successful camp completion to receive appropriate credit. Students receive approximately $670.00 pay, room and board, and travel expenses. No military obligation is incurred. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Professor of Military Science. 3100. Leadership Laboratory. (1). Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: ARMY 3111. 3111. Applied Leadership I. (3). (3110, 3190). Presentation, discussion, practical exercise, and field training on fundamentals of map reading and land navigation; development of skills in individual and small unit tactical planning and operations; and professional The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]subjects in leadership, leadership assessment, and principles of war. Three lecture hours per week, three hours physical training per week, and field training exercises on two weekends during semester. COREQUISITE: ARMY 3100. PREREQUISITE: permission of the Professor of Military Science. 3115. Leadership Laboratory. (1). Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: ARMY 3121. 3121. Applied Leadership II. (3). (3120). Continuation of first year advanced course. COREQUISITE: ARMY 3115. PREREQUISITE: permission of the Professor of Military Science. 3190. Advanced Camp Training. (6). Six weeks of training at an Army post, normally taken between the 1st and 2nd years of Advanced Course; practical experience in leadership, small unit tactics, U.S. Army weapon systems and equipment, and patrolling operation; examination administered by the Department of Military Science required to receive academic credit. Students must register for course following successful camp completion to receive credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of Professor of Military Science.4100. Leadership Laboratory. (1) Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: ARMY 4111. 4111. Seminar in Leadership and Planning. (3). (4110). Leadership and management skill development in specific areas of oral and written communications, training management, personnel evaluation and counseling, personnel management systems of Army, U.S. Army logistic systems, military justice, and familiarization with ethics of military professional. This course, in conjunction with 4121, completes the cadet's preparation for commissioning as a Second Lieutenant in the Army Reserve or National Guard. Three lecture hours every week, three hours physical training each week, and field training exercises on two weekends during semester. COREQUISITE: ARMY 4100. PREREQUISITE: permission of the Professor of Military Science. 4115. Leadership Laboratory. (1). Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: ARMY 4121. 4121. Seminar in Organizational Leadership. (3). (4120). Continuation of second year of advanced course. COREQUISITE: ARMY 4115. PREREQUISITE: permission of the Professor of Military Science. NAVAL SCIENCE COLONEL JERRY W. KAHLER, Professor of Naval Science Room 101A, Art Annex The Department of Naval Science provides a four-year program of instruction leading to a commission as an officer in the U.S. Navy or Marine Corps. The program is known as the Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) and is voluntary in that students may withdraw from the program at any time during the freshman year. At the start of the sophomore year, scholarship NROTC students enter into an agreement with the Department of the Navy that specifies active duty service after college work is completed. EQUIREMENTSThe general requirements for enrollment in the NROTC College Program are to: 1. be a citizen of the United States 2. be physically qualified 3. possess personal characteristics and potential relevant for naval officer 4. not be a conscientious objector 5. meet other requirements as specified by the U.S. Navy. THE FOUR-YEAR PROGRAM The four-year program is geared to students who enter the NROTC program as freshmen. Students will be introduced to the field of naval science, which encompasses a broad variety of subjects ranging from basic seamanship to fleet operations. Topics covered during the first half of the four-year program include principles of naval ships systems, naval weaponry, seapower, and maritime affairs. The second half (junior and senior years) is devoted to navigation and naval operations, naval leadership and management, and, for Marine Option Students, Amphibious Warfare and a study of warfare through the ages. In addition to specified courses, students will also meet with their NROTC unit for orientation experiences to service life. Six-week summer training cruises are also part of the naval science program. THE TWO-YEAR PROGRAM The two-year program is for interested students who want to participate in NROTC in their junior and senior years. Students should apply for enrollment through the Professor of Naval Science before the spring semester of the sophomore year. If accepted into the The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]two-year program, students will attend the six-week Naval Science Institute at Newport, Rhode Island, during the summer between the sophomore and junior years. Upon return to campus, students will be enrolled in the NROTC program and participate as regular students.FINANCIAL BENEFITS AND NROTC SCHOLARSHIPS All NROTC students receive required uniforms and naval science textbooks when they begin the program as freshmen. In their junior year as college program students or as two-year program students, they will also receive a tax-free subsistence allowance of $150 a month. NROTC scholarship students will also receive tuition, cost of textbooks, instructional fees and $150 a month. Students will receive pay while participating in summer training experiences and be reimbursed for associated travel. Students interested in the Naval ROTC programs should contact the Professor of Naval Science. Course Descriptions NAVAL SCIENCE (NAVY) 1100. Navy Laboratory. (1). Two laboratory hours per week. [G]. 1101. Introduction to Naval Science. (2). Orientation and concepts of seapower. Mission, organization, and warfare components of the Navy and Marine Corps. COREQUISITE: NAVY 1100. 1104. Navy Laboratory. (1). (2203). Two laboratory hours per week. [G]. 1105. Seapower and Maritime Affairs. (3). (2202). U.S. naval history from the Revolution to the present with emphasis on major developments. Present day concerns in seapower and maritime affairs. COREQUISITE: NAVY 1104. 2204. Navy Laboratory. (1). (1103). Two laboratory hours per week. [G]. 2205. Naval Ships Systems I--Engineering. (3). (1102). Ship characteristics and types including ship design, hydrodynamic forces, stability, compartmentation, propulsion, electrical and auxiliary systems, interior communications, ship control, and damage control. COREQUISITE: NAVY 2204. 2206. Navy Laboratory. (1). (2200). Two laboratory hours per week. [G]. 2207. Naval Ships Systems II--Weapons. (3). (2201). Theory and employment of weapons systems. Processes of detection, evaluation, threat analysis, delivery, guidance, and explosives. COREQUISITE: NAVY 2206. 3000. Naval Science Institute (NSI). (8). Intensive six-week professional academic and training program conducted each summer at a naval installation by the Chief of Naval Education and Training for students entering the two-year NROTC Programs. The Naval Science Institute is the equivalent of the NROTC Basic Course. [G]. 3301. Navigation and Naval Operations I. (3). Piloting and celestial navigation including theory, principles, and procedures. Use of charts, visual and electronic aids, and the theory and operation of magnetic and gyro compasses. Three class hours and two hours of Navy Laboratory* per week. 3302. Navigation and Naval Operations II. (3). International and inland rules of the nautical road, relative-motion vector- analysis theory, relative motion problems, formation tactics, and ship employment. Three class hours and two hours of Navy Laboratory* per week. 3310. Evolution of Warfare. (3). Historical development of warfare from the beginning of recorded history to the present focusing on the impact of major military theorists, strategists, tacticians, and technological developments. Three class hours and two hours of Navy Laboratory* per week. 4000. Marine Corps Leadership Training. (6). Summer instruction ("Bulldog") conducted at the Marine Corps Officer Candidate School, Quantico, Virginia. Intensive six-week professional training program for Marine Option Junior Midshipmen. Focuses on Marine Corps history and tradition, leadership under high stress situations, and effective management of men and materials in simulated combat conditions. 4401. Naval Leadership and Management I. (2). Advanced study of organizational behavior and management in the context of the naval organization. Practical applications are explored by the use of experiential exercises, case studies, and laboratory discussions. Two class hours and two hours of Navy Laboratory* per week. 4402. Naval Leadership and Management II. (2). Naval junior officer responsibilities in naval administration; builds on and integrates the professional competencies developed in prior course work and professional training. Two class hours and two hours of Navy Laboratory* per week. The College of Arts and Sciences Course 12:03:27 PM]4410. Amphibious Warfare. (3). Historical survey of the development of amphibious doctrine and the conduct of amphibious operations. Emphasis is placed on the evolution of amphibious warfare in the 20th century, especially during World War II. Three class hours and two hours of Navy Laboratory* per week. *Navy Laboratory. Focuses on the requisite moral, leadership and physical qualities for becoming a commissioned officer. The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Course 12:03:29 PM]BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS COURSE DESCRIPTIONSACCOUNTANCY (ACCT) BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (BA) ECONOMICS (ECON) FINANCE, INSURANCE AND REAL ESTATE (FIR) MANAGEMENT (MGMT) INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND DECISION SCIENCES (ISDS) MARKETING (MKTG) SCHOOL OF ACCOUNTANCY KENNETH R. AUSTIN, D.B.A., C.P.A Director, School of Accountancy Room 200, Fogelman Business and Economics Building RONALD H. EATON, Ph.D., C.P.A. Coordinator, General Accounting JOHN M. MALLOY, Ph.D., J.D., C.P.A. Coordinator, Taxation PETER L. McMICKLE, Ph.D., C.P.A. Coordinator, Accounting Information Systems In addition to specific prerequisites, junior standing or permission of the school director is a prerequisite for all 3000 and 4000 level courses in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Courses in the School of Accountancy numbered from 3110 to 4911 are open only to students fully admitted to the School of Accountancy, or with the permission of the School Director or designate. ACCOUNTANCY (ACCT) 2010. Fundamentals of Accounting I. (3). Collection and analysis of financial transactions and communication of information through periodic general purpose financial statements using double-entry accrual accounting techniques. Use of accounting procedures to routinize and control repetitive activities. Theory stressed with minimum necessary attention to clerical operations. 2020. Fundamentals of Accounting II. (3). General survey of cost accounting, income taxes, financial statement analysis, and special accounting analysis for managerial decision making. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 2010. 2410. Computer Applications in Accounting. (3). Introduction to the major concepts and issues in management and accounting information systems. Hands-on learning of computer applications in accounting including spreadsheet modeling, introduction to database, and word processing. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: ACCT 2020. 2610. Personal Accounting and Tax Preparation for Non-Accountants. (3). Use of computers to plan and maintain personal or small business financial records and to prepare personal tax returns. Unavailable to students majoring in accounting. 3010. Managerial Accounting. (3). Accounting as it relates to managerial control. Includes financial statement analysis including price level changes, cost controls, budgeting, quantitative accounting techniques for decision making in management. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 2020. This course is for non-accounting majors only. 3110. Intermediate Accounting I. (3). Review of accounting process and financial statements; cash; receivables and short-term investments; inventories; investments in equity securities, income recognition; operational assets; intangibles. PREREQUISITES: ACCT 2020. 3120. Intermediate Accounting II. (3). Long-term debt; corporations, formation and changes after formation; retained earnings; investments in debt instruments; statement of cash flows; pensions; leases; E.P.S.; deferred income taxes; accounting changes; financial reporting and changing prices. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3110. 3310. Cost Accounting. (3). Cost systems, including job order, process, and standard, as management information systems for planning and control. Allocation of indirect costs, preparation of variable budgets, and determination of standard cost variances and The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Course 12:03:29 PM]their meaning. PREREQUISITES: ACCT 2020, 2410. 3510. Federal Income Tax I. (3). Introduction to the federal income taxation of individuals. 3723. Professional Business Ethics. (3). Classical ethical theories as basis for professional codes of ethics and corporate codes of conduct. Approaches for enhancing ethical climate within organizations. Pragmatic ethical cases emphasizing both dilemma avoidance and dilemma resolution. 4020. Accounting Systems. (3). (4450). Accounting systems analysis and design emphasizing the accounting cycles approach. Theory of systems control in an organizational setting. Students implement a holistic approach of synthesizing the accounting, financing, operating, and production functions where applicable. On-site practicum with an actual company. PREREQUISITES: ACCT 3310.4210. Advanced Accounting. (3). Partnerships, statement of affairs, receiver's accounts, statement of realization and liquidation, business combinations and consolidated financial statements, fund accounting, international accounting. Enrollment restricted to students who are governed by catalogs prior to 1993-1994. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3120. 4240. Auditing. (3). Ethics in accounting practices, internal control, auditing standards and procedures, programs of audit of various accounts, reports to clients. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 4020. 4241-6241. Advanced Auditing. (3). (0551). In-depth background in three technical areas of auditing: statistical plans, selection techniques, and statistical measurement. Analytical review techniques. EDP auditing. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 4240. 4310. Advanced Cost Accounting. (3). Budgets, determination of standards, variances and their functions, cost reports, profit projecting, direct costing, gross profit and break-even analysis, cost-profit-volume analysis, capital expenditure control, comparative cost analysis. Enrollment restricted to students who are governed by catalogs prior to 1993-1994. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3310. 4410. Advanced Computer Applications In Accounting. (3). Advanced techniques for the use of computer application packages and programming in such areas as financial modeling, financial analysis, productivity, and presentation as well as other applications of current and anticipated interest and benefit to the accounting profession. Enrollment restricted to students who are governed by catalogs prior to 1993-1994. PREREQUISITES: ACCT 3120, 3310. 4520-6520. Federal Income Tax II. (3). Introduction to the federal income taxation of corporations, partnerships, estates and trusts. Available only to students who are governed by catalogs prior to 1993-1994. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 3510. 4540. Governmental, Health Care/Not-for-Profit Accounting. (3). Basic accounting and reporting procedures for governmental units, universities and other not-for-profit entities. 4721. Senior Accounting Symposium. (1). Capstone course in accounting, integrating all required accounting courses. Enrollment restricted to graduating seniors only. 4910. Problems in Accounting. (1-3). Students will conduct approved projects in major area under supervision of faculty. PREREQUISITE: Permission of school director. 4911. Internship in Accounting. (1-6). Internship in business organization to gain on-the-job experience. Project to be approved, supervised by department faculty member. Credit allowed only after acceptance of report, varies with complexity of duties. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and a minimum QPA of 2.75. 4920-29. Special Topics In Accounting. (3). Varied topics. May be repeated once with change in topic. PREREQUISITE: consent of Director of School of Accountancy. 4996. Senior Honors Thesis In Accountancy. (3). Independent research open only to those students enrolled in the honors program. Thesis supervised by faculty member; approved by the Director of the School. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and permission of the director of the college honors program. BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (BA) Students must have junior standing and have met specific course prerequisites with a grade of C or better to be eligible for all 3000- and 4000-level courses. In addition to these requirements, students seeklng a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower division business courses wlth a minimum grade of C in each; (2) minimum of 2.25 QPA in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1312, and (3) 55 hours of coursework including MATH 1312 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements-General Requirements ).4900. Practicum In Research. (1-3). Actual problem-solving research activities in business and economics. Student assigned to The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Course 12:03:29 PM]project either being conducted currently by faculty member or one developed under supervision of faculty member. Whenever possible, project within student's major field of study. PREREQUISITE: senior status. 4911. Internship In International Business. (1-6). (4000). Practical operations of international business. Students placed for 1-8 month period with cooperating business firm operating in fields of international banking and finance, transportation, management, marketing or accounting. Academic credit granted upon certification of satisfactory performance by cooperating business firm and upon acceptance by faculty of written research report by student. ECONOMICSPROFESSOR ROSE M. RUBIN, Chair Room 400, Fogelman Business and Economics Building Students must have junior standing and have met specific course prerequisites with a grade of C or better to be eligible for all 3000- and 4000-level courses. In addition to these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower division business courses with a minimum grade of C in each; (2) minimum of 2.25 QPA in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1312, and (3) 55 hours of coursework including MATH 1312 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements-General Requirements ).ECONOMICS (ECON) 2110. Introduction to Macroeconomics. (3). Nature and functions of the national economy in a global context. Includes consumption and investment behavior, national income and product determination, fiscal and monetary policy, and international trade. [G]. 2120. Introduction to Microeconomics. (3). Operation of the market economy at the individual and firm level. Includes supply and demand analysis, consumer behavior, behavior of firms in both competitive and monopoly environments, income distribution theory, and effects of government intervention in the market economy. [G]. 3020-29. Special Topics in Economics. (3). Current economic issues and problems in the United States. Emphasis on application of tools and analytical methods. PREREQUISITES: ECON 2110, 2120. 3210. Labor Economics. (3). Introduction to institutional aspects of American labor force and its organization wage and employment theory, economic role of collective bargaining, and basic ingredients of public policy toward labor organization. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2120. 3310. Microeconomic Theory. (3). Intermediate approach to price theory. Stress on market mechanism as device for resource allocation; attention to uses of basic microeconomic concepts in analysis of economic problems and in formulation of policy. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2120. 3320. Macroeconomic Theory. (3). Intermediate approach to social income accounting and to functional relationships between important aggregate economic variables as well as to forecasting and social policy implications. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2110. 3580. International Economic Development-An Ecological Perspective. (3). Process of economic development as adaptive interplay between man's needs and ways in which environment is exploited to satisfy those needs in both developed and less developed countries. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2110 or consent of instructor. 3610. Money and Banking. (3). Monetary and banking history of leading countries with special emphasis on theory of money and banking in United States, deposit and earnings operations of individual banks, interbank and central bank relations. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2110. 4040. Economic Analysis of Law. (3). Evaluation of economic effects of both existing and proposed laws. Specifically, to model transactions that occur in changing legal environment and then to estimate impact of changes in legal position on outcomes of voluntary transactions. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2120. 4111. Managerial Economics. (3). Direct application of economics to common business problems. Economic framework and empirical techniques of production and cost analysis, project evaluation, pricing, and demand analysis. PREREQUISITES: MATH 1312, ECON 2120, ISDS 2711, 2750. [C]. 4120. Economic Forecasting. (3). Current economic thinking on problems of recession and inflation as background to economic forecasting. Methodologies of forecasting analyzed with examples of each. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 2711 or equivalent. 4130-6130. Government Regulation of Business. (3). Approaches to legal and legislative control of business-especially tax The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Course 12:03:29 PM]laws, commission regulations, and antimonopoly legislation-in view of impact of each on industrial operating policy. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2120. 4260. Environmental Economics and Policy. (3). Economic analysis of environmental problems and various techniques that can be implemented in their resolution (pollution taxes, sale of pollution rights, regulation and outright prohibition); complex interaction of environmental degradation, population explosion and economic progress. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2120 or consent of instructor.4313. Economic Strategies Under Uncertainty. (3). Introduction to analytical methods of game theory developed by economists as they apply to making business decisions in an uncertain economic environment where competitors' decisions are interdependent. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2120. 4340. Comparative Economic Systems. (3). Factors contributing to differential performance of economic systems, including property rights, information flow, incentive structure, management-labor relations, government policies on technology and competitiveness. Emerging trends of system convergence and corporate globalization. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2120. 4350. International Economics. (3). Historical approach to theory of international trade; consideration given to Classical, Neo- Classical and Modern approach to trade theory with emphasis on policy implications of the analysis. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2120 or equivalent.4351. International Monetary Economics: Theory and Policy. (3). Open economy macroeconomics. Includes examination of payments among nations, foreign exchange markets, determinants of exchange rate policies. National income and foreign exchange, internal and external balance and international factor movements. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2110. 4410. Development of Economic Thought. (3). Historical development of economic thought. Attention primarily on emergence of Classical and Neoclassical thought, several dissident schools of thought, and twentieth-century economic thought. PREREQUISITE: ECON 2110. 4740. Health Care Economics. (3). Topics include unique nature of health care as economic good, health care market and its participants including patients, physicians, and hospitals, and financing and delivery of personal health care in United States and other countries. 4810-6810. Quantitative Economic Analysis. (3). Introduction to application of mathematical tools in economics. Optimization with and without constraints. Comparative analysis in economics. 4820. Econometrics. (3). Introduction to statistical procedures used to estimate and test quantitative economic theories, using microcomputer software for regression analysis. 4910. Problems In Economics. (1-3). Students investigate issues surrounding selected economic problems and develop reports of that investigation. May be repeated to maximum of 3 hours credit. PREREQUISITES: upper division standing and approval of department chair. 4911. Internship In Economics. (1-6). Internship in business organization to gain on-the-job experience. Project to be approved and supervised by department faculty. Credit allowed only after acceptance of report. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and minimum QPA of 2.75. 4920. Senior Seminar In Economics. (3). Coordinated by department chair and conducted by selected members of department. To integrate several fields and course areas pursued by undergraduate majors into meaningful whole. Required of all departmental majors in their last year of undergraduate enrollment. 4996. Honors Thesis In Economics. (3). Independent research open only to students enrolled in Economics Department Honors Program. Honors thesis supervised by three-faculty committee selected by student and approved by Economics Honors Committee. PREREQUISITE: permission of Economics Department Honors Committee. FINANCE, INSURANCE AND REAL ESTATE PROFESSOR MARS A. PERTL, Chair Room 402A, Fogelman Business and Economics Building Students must have junior standing and have met specific course prerequisites with a grade of C or better to be eligible for all 3000- and 4000-level courses. In addition to these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower division business courses with a minimum grade of C in each; (2) minimum of 2.25 QPA in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1312, and (3) 55 hours of coursework including MATH 1312 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements- General Requirements ). The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Course 12:03:29 PM]FINANCE, INSURANCE AND REAL ESTATE (FIR) 2220. Personal Financial Management. (3). Non-technical dealing with broad areas of budgeting, insurance, borrowing and credit purchases, home ownership, investment, taxes, and family financial planning. NOTE: If taken after student has received credit for FIR 3710 or 3810, credit will not count for BBA degree. 3011. Business Law. (3). Elements of law and legal principles encountered in business. Emphasis on basic law of contracts, sales and secured transactions, negotiable instruments, real and personal property, agency, forms of business organization, suretyship, insurance contracts and torts. 3130. The Legal, Social, and Political Environment of Business. (3). Emphasis on legal, social, and political environment in which business and its executives exist. Legal, social, and political forces that affect business operations. Lectures and case discussions.3310. Real Estate Principles. (3). Basic terminology, principles and issues. Topics include market analysis, real estate law, instruments, legal descriptions, appraisal, investment, finance, brokerage, property management. Designed for non-real estate majors as well as a foundation for further study. 3410. Business Finance. (3). Integration of principles of financial management with institutional finance. Current topics of managerial finance including working capital management, capital budgeting, and acquisition of funds. PREREQUISITES: ACCT 2020, ECON 2120, ISDS 2710. 3710. Investments. (3). Principles of investment in stocks and bonds. Includes fundamental, economic, and technical analysis; measurable and unmeasurable aspects of risk; portfolio management; and the psychological aspects of the market. PREREOUISITE: FIR 3410. 3720. Financial Markets. (3). Survey of important funds markets, institutions and characteristics peculiar to them. Sources of supply of and demand for funds in each market, and complex interrelations among several markets analyzed. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410.3770. Commodity Futures Market. (3). Mechanics of trading including the contract, commodities traded, and exchanges involved. Transfer of risk and stabilization of prices through futures trading. Role of speculators. Buying/selling strategies including hedging used by farmers, commodity marketers, speculators, and processors. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3710. 3810. Principles of Risk and Insurance. (3). Nature and handling of risk in personal and business situations. Emphasis on property, liability and life exposures to loss. Designed for non-insurance major as well as a basis for advanced study. 4011-6011. Estate Planning and Law of Taxation. (3). Survey of law of taxation as applied to transmission of property by gift or death and its impact upon accumulations of wealth. Estate planning from individual viewpoint designed to create, maintain, and distribute maximum estate possible. 4110-19. Special Topics. (3). Current topics in one of following areas: Finance, Insurance, Real Estate, or Business Law. Topics varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. May be repeated once with change in topic area. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor.4310-6310. Real Estate Law. (3). Law and legal instruments as applied to real estate. To serve needs of property owners and those engaged in real estate business. 4320. Real Estate Finance. (3). Terminology, legislation, principles, and analytical techniques pertaining to financing of real estate. Perspective of lender, residential borrower, and income property borrower. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410. 4340-6340. Real Estate Appraisal. (3). Basic terminology, principles, procedures, and issues. Topics include the nature of value, principles of value, appraisal process, market approach, cost approach, capitalization of income approach, gross rent multiplier approach, and appraisal reports. 4350. Real Estate Investment Principles. (3). Principles and practices reviewed and evaluated. Topics include investment strategy, ownership forms, tax implications, cash flow analysis, measures of return, risk management, and property selection. 4360. Commercial Land Use. (3). (Same as GEOG 4442). Factors influencing the location pattern of commercial land uses; emphasis on location analysis of commercial real estate. 4440. Managerial Finance. (3). Analytical approaches to firm's financial decisions; including current asset management, capital budgeting, cost of capital, capital structure determination, and dividend policy. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410. 4550. International Finance. (3). Financing international trade and investments; foreign exchange markets and exchange rates; The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Course 12:03:29 PM]balance of payments; current developments in international financial cooperation. 4610-6610. Cases In Managerial Finance. (3). Application of tools and principles introduced in previous courses to develop up- to-date problem solving techniques: Cases approached from standpoint of top level management and utilize both quantitative and qualitative analysis. PREREQUISITE: FIR 4440. 4710. Commercial Banking. (3). Study of bank management and bank regulation. Examination of conditions that lead to bank regulation and conditions that caused deregulation. Exploration of current theories of profitable bank operations. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410. 4720-6720. Operations and Management of Financial Institutions. (3). Exposure to financial policies and decision-making that are peculiar to financial institutions in United States. Management of institutions consistent with adequate standards of liquidity and solvency. PREREQUISITES: FIR 3410, 3720. 4770. Security Analysis and Portfolio Management. (3). Development of techniques for finding actual worth of securities, primarily stocks and bonds. Portfolio management involves selection, timing, diversification, and other aspects of supervising investment funds. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3710. 4810-6810. Property and Liability Insurance I. (3). Forms and functions of fire, marine, automobile, general liability and other types of property and liability insurance. Emphasis on business and industrial applications. 4820-6820. Life and Health Insurance. (3). Functions of life and health insurance. Emphasis on economic security needs, human behavior and the problems related to death and dying. Individual life, health and annuity contracts and social insurance. Concepts in risk selections and regulation. 4840-6840. Multiple Line Insurance Company Operations. (3). Company and industry functions other than contracts, including rating, rate-making, reserves, auditing, underwriting, reinsurance, claims, production engineering, and governmental supervision.4860-6860. Employee Benefit Programs. (3). Life, health and pension benefit programs from the viewpoint of the benefit planner. Topics include the reasons for providing such programs, alternate methods for providing benefits, and broadly designing specifications for benefits. 4870. Risk Management. (3). Problems of risk manager in small and large firms, methods of handling risk that serve as alternatives to obtaining insurance, and brief survey of insurance as standard for comparisons. 4880-6880. Risk Management Finance. (3). Emphasis on integrating financial theory into practice of risk management for the firm; use of quantitative tools to carry out risk management process by developing spreadsheets to measure expected loss, determine appropriate risk handling method, and analyze risk financing arrangements. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410. 4910. Problems in Finance, Insurance, or Real Estate. (1-3). Student will carry on approved research projects in the major area under supervision of staff members. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and permission of the department chairman. 4911. Internship in Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate. (1-6). Internship in business organization to gain on-the-job experience in real-life environment. Project to be approved and supervised by department faculty. Credit allowed only after acceptance of report. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and minimum QPA of 2.75. 4912. Personal Financial Planning Applications. (3). Computer based applications of practical financial planning problems common to planner. PREREQUISITES: junior standing and minimum of 9 hours in finance courses. 4996. Senior Honors Thesis In Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate. (3). Independent research open only to those students enrolled in the honors program. Thesis supervised by departmental faculty member. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and permission of the Director of the College Honors Program. MANAGEMENTPROFESSOR THOMAS R. MILLER, Chair Room 202, Fogelman Business and Economics Building Students must have junior standing and have met specific course prerequisites with a grade of C or better to be eligible for all 3000- and 4000-level courses. In addition to these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower division business courses with a minimum grade of C in each; (2) minimum of 2.25 QPA in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1312, and (3) 55 hours of coursework including MATH 1312 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements-General Requirements ). The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Course 12:03:29 PM]MANAGEMENT (MGMT) 1010. Introduction to Business. (3). Acquaintance with major institutions and practices in business and coverage of elementary concepts of business. Survey of functional areas of business and the activities of management. Provides orientation for selection of major and information on business career opportunities. NOTE: If taken by students with 25 hours or more, credit will not count for BBA degree. 3110. Organization and Management. (3). Comprehensive survey of management functions, basic concepts, and management principles. Includes coverage of planning and decision making, organizing, directing, and controlling. Focuses on coordination of organizational resources to achieve objectives. 3215. Personnel Administration and Industrial Relations. (3). Personnel functions and basic concepts. Includes human resource planning, job analysis, staffing, development, compensation, employee/labor relations, health and safety, industrial employee union representation, and impact of the Equal Employment Opportunity Act. 3510. Business Communication. (3). Communication theory applied to business and the professions, with emphasis on effective writing. Presentation of written and oral case solutions, including letters, memoranda, reports, and employment applications. Selection and use of research sources. Consideration of business ethics, technology, and intercultural communication. [W]. 4110-19. Special Topics in Management. (3). Topics varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor.4210. Human Resources Management. (3). In-depth examination of selected issues in human resources management utilizing special problems, topics, and cases. Major issues include planning, employment, development, utilization, performance appraisal, maintenance, and separation of human resources. PREREQUISITES: MGMT 3110, 3215. 4220. Collective Bargaining. (3). Labor-management relations from standpoint of collective bargaining contracts; emphasis on process of negotiating agreements, including procedures, tactics, and subject matter. PREREQUISITES: MGMT 3110, 3215. 4230. Employee-Management Law and Legislation. (3). Historic and philosophic background of employee-management legislation and its impact on the workplace, including recent developments in discrimination, health and safety, and employee rights and responsibilities. PREREQUISITES: MGMT 3110, 3215. 4240. Compensation and Performance Appraisal. (3). Systematic examination of administration of wage and salary as tool of management. Through use of job descriptions, job analysis, and job evaluation methods, instruction in techniques of rationalizing wage structures. Analyses of some outstanding considerations that must be taken into account in installing and administering wage programs are made. PREREQUISITES: MGMT 3110, 3215. 4320. Office Systems and Procedures. (3). (ADOS 4320). Trends and practices related to document processing in the office environment, of automated equipment for communication and information technology. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3510. 4330. Records Management and Control. (3). (ADOS 4330). Functions and basic concepts of records and database management; filing and database classification systems, forms design, inventory and analysis, storage and retrieval, and records management and control for computerized systems. 4410-6410. Office Management. (3). (ADOS 4410). Modern methods in office organization and management, including office systems and procedures, office layout and design, and ergonomic considerations. 4420. Organizational Behavior in Business. (3). Human relations as applied to people at work in all kinds of organizations. Emphasis on understanding of human behavior and motivation of employees to work together in greater harmony. Topics include fundamentals of organizational behavior, leadership and its development, organizational environment, and communication and group processes. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110. 4460-6460. Word Processing Management. (3). (ADOS 4420). Concepts and development of managerial techniques in word processing; word processing systems and procedures, equipment selection, layout and design of word processing departments, dictation systems and human aspects of word processing systems. 4510. International Business Communication and Negotiation. (3). Importance of business communication in conducting global business effectively. Emphasis on organizational and interpersonal communication and negotiation skills needed in an integrated world economy. Includes culture-based assumptions, contrasting cultural values, communication and negotiation strategies, verbal and nonverbal patterns, culture shock, and country-specific information. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3510. 4710. Business Policy. (3). Advanced problems in determination, execution, and control of strategic management process in light of changing environments in which organizations operate. PREREQUISITES: MGMT 3110 and senior standing in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Enrollment limited to graduating seniors. [I]. The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Course 12:03:29 PM]4810. International Management. (3). Introduction to issues in international business and exploration of environment facing firms in international arena. Problems in planning, implementing, and controlling activities such as choosing foreign associates, selecting plant location, and dealing with labor, structure, legal constraints, and trade problems. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110. 4820. Entrepreneurship. (3). Initiation process of new business venture. Participants as teams develop detailed development plan covering all phases of business initiation and development. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110. 4910. Management Problems. (1-3). Student carries on approved research projects in his major area under supervision of staff members. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and permission of department chairman. 4911. Internship in Management. (1-6). Internship in business organization to gain on-the-job experience. Project to be approved and supervised by department faculty. Credit allowed only after acceptance of report. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and a minimum QPA of 2.75. 4996. Senior Honors Thesis in Management. (3). Independent research open only to those students enrolled in the honors program. Thesis supervised by departmental faculty member. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and permission of the Director of the College Honors Program. MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND DECISION SCIENCESASSOCIATE PROFESSOR RONALD WILKES, Chair Room 300, Fogelman Business and Economics Building Students must have junior standing and have met specific course prerequisites with a grade of C or better to be eligible for all 3000- and 4000-level courses. In addition to these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower division business courses with a minimum grade of C in each; (2) minimum of 2.25 QPA in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1312, and (3) 55 hours of coursework including MATH 1312 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements-General Requirements ).Comparable courses taken previously with a MGMT prefix may not be taken for additional credit with the ISDS prefix.INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND DECISION SCIENCES (ISDS) 1240. Programming for Business. (3). (ADOS 1240). Programming methodology using BASIC and FORTRAN languages and business applications. Designing and writing a variety of programs for use on CRT terminals, minicomputers, and microcomputers. Emphasis on financial, accounting, management, economic, and office areas. 2710. Business Statistics I. (3). Introduction to basic statistical procedures for analysis and interpretation of business data. Topics include collection and presentation of data, probability theory, measures of central tendency and variability, sampling distributions, estimation of parameters, and principles of hypothesis testing. Introduction to a statistical software package. COREQUlSlTE: MATH 1312. 2711. Business Statistics II. (3). Emphasis on statistical analysis and decision making. Topics include nonparametric models, index numbers, analysis of variance, simple and multiple correlation and regression, and time series analysis. Extensive computer applications are used for decision support. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 2710; MATH 1312. 2750. Introduction to Management Information Systems with Computer Applications. (3). Introduction to major concepts in business information systems. Students will be required to solve business problems utilizing computer in an on-line interactive environment. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. 2770. Computer Hardware/Software. (3). Provides experience working with common operating systems including UNIX, DOS/Windows, and Mainframe. Includes file manipulation, editing functions, communication, and shell programming. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 2750. 3510. Production and Operations Management I. (3). Operations as a key element of organizational strategy from a competitive viewpoint. Integration of various techniques to facilitate solution to productivity and quality issues in both manufacturing and service industries using multifunctional approaches in the creation of goods and services. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 2711. 3755. Introduction to C Programming. (3). (3730). Basic computer architecture knowledge necessary to master programming in C and to provide fundamental knowledge of control structures, modular form and addressing schemes in the C language. The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Course 12:03:29 PM]PREREQUISITE: ISDS 2770. 3740. Intermediate C Programming. (3). Skills necessary to read and understand C programming literature, design new C programs, and perform maintenance on existing C programs in mainstream software engineering environment. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 3730. 3750. Applications Program Development I. (3). Development of programs and systems of programs utilizing sequential and random access file structures and processing techniques. Emphasis on structured design, development, testing, implementation and documentation. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 2770. 3760. Operations Research. (3). Introduction to decision making, concentrating on problem solving technique. Emphasis on problem definition, model construction, and various solution techniques including linear programming, project analysis and control, queueing methods, and simulation. PREREQUISITES: ISDS 2711 and 2750, or equivalent. 3770. Systems Analysis Methods. (3). (MGMT 2780). Overview of systems development life cycle. Emphasis on current systems documentation through use of classical and structured tools and techniques for describing process flows and data flows, data structures, file and input/output design and program specifications, data gathering and information reporting activities, transition from analysis to design. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 2750. 3775. Business Data Management. (3). (MGMT 4755). Focus on (1) designing, writing, and debugging programs written in a high-level language for common business applications involving direct access files; (2) selecting appropriate file organization; (3) designing data models; and (4) evaluating Commercial Data Base Management Systems. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 1240 or COMP 1900 or 3 hours in a programming language. 3780. Programming with C++. (3). Programming elements including object oriented programming extensions among traditional high level programming language. Editing files, compiling and debugging programs. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 3730. 3790. Business Telecommunications. (3). Introduction to business telecommunications concepts and terminology. Topics include decentralization of computer processing, communication links, communications-oriented hardware and software, network design, and network management. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 2750. 4000-09. Special Topics in Management Information Systems. (3). Selected topics of current interest in management information systems and computer software application. Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4110-19. Special Topics in Management Information Systems and Decision Sciences. (3). Topics varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. 4430. Word Processing Applications. (3). (ADOS 4430). Emphasis on operation of magnetic media automatic typewriters and visual display word processing equipment. Training in equipment operations and applications design; simulated office and word processing projects. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 1230 or equivalent. 4510. Production and Operations Management II. (3). Emphasis on entire production system including interface with engineering, role of materials management, relationship to data base management, and problems of systems coordination. Master planning, value analysis, and organizational aspects of production environment critically examined. PREREQUISITES: MGMT 3110, ISDS 3510. 4511. Materials Management. (3). In-depth course in planning and control of materials requirements. Order point models and systems and requirements planning techniques studied. Aggregate inventory management, distribution, inter-plant inventories, and design of materials management systems emphasized. PREREQUISITES: MGMT 3110, ISDS 3510. 4512. Productivity Management. (3). Total systems perspective toward analyzing productivity issues that affect organizational performance. Importance of correctly defining and measuring productivity and supporting activities to maintain it. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 3510 or consent of instructor. 4765. Decision Support Systems. (3). Computer systems designed to support managers in decision-making process, development of interactive management science models and role of these models in decision support systems. PREREQUISITES: ISDS 3760, 3775. 4770. Structured Systems Analysis and Design. (3). (MGMT 3780). Advanced study of structured systems development. Emphasis on strategies and techniques of structured analysis and structured design for producing logical methodologies aiding in dealing with complexities in development of information systems. PREREQUISITES: ISDS 3750, 3775. 4780-6780. Applied Software Development Project. (3). Application of programming and systems development concepts, principles and practices to a comprehensive system development project. Team approach used to analyze, design and document realistic systems of moderate complexity. Use of project control techniques, formal presentations and group dynamics in development of information system. Development of database to support system. PREREQUISITES: ISDS 3770, 3775. The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Course 12:03:29 PM]4785. Information Systems Resource Management and Planning. (3). Broad overview of information systems management function with particular attention to planning, organizing and controlling user services and to managing computer information systems development process. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 3770. 4790-6790. Management Information Systems. (3). Problems and techniques concerning design and installation of responsive systems brought together; special attention to executive use of system's product. System approaches utilizing current planning and control models studied through current literature and texts in computer field. PREREQUISITES: ISDS 2750 and one college level mathematics course; junior standing, or permission of instructor. 4795. End User Support: Managerial Concepts and Applications. (3). Theory, methodology, and application tools necessary to management of end user computing environment; emphasis on management aspects of the unique environment; advanced techniques of pertinent application tools commonly found in end user environment as crucial to management of end user computing. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 3775. 4910. Management Information Systems and Decision Sciences Problems. (1-3). Approved research projects in student's major area under supervision of staff members. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and permission of department chair. 4911. Internship in Management Information Systems and Decision Sciences. (1-6). Internship in business organization to gain on-the-job experience. Project approved and supervised by department faculty. Credit allowed only after acceptance of report. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and a minimum QPA of 2.75. 4996. Senior Honors Thesis in Management Information Systems. (3). Independent research open only to those students enrolled in the honors program. Thesis supervised by departmental faculty member. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and permission of the Director of the College Honors Program. MARKETINGPROFESSOR EMIN BABAKUS, Interim Chair Students must have junior standing and have met specific course prerequisites with a grade of C or better to be eligible for all 3000- and 4000-level courses. In addition to these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower division business courses with a minimum grade of C in each; (2) minimum of 2.25 QPA in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1312, and (3) 55 hours of coursework including MATH 1312 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements-General Requirements ).All course prerequisites listed below must be completed with grade of C or better. Any exception to prerequisites requires written permission of department chair. NOTE: Non-business majors who have completed MKTG 3011 prior to the 1993 catalog may substitute MKTG 3011 for MKTG 3010 as the prerequisite. MARKETING (MKTG) 3010. Principles of Marketing (3). Comprehensive study of structure and functions of marketing system in the firm, economy, and society. Includes analysis of target markets, environments, and managerial aspects of marketing practices. 3012. Consumer Behavior. (3). Why consumers behave as they do. Psychological and sociological theories and principles applied to current marketing problems. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010. 3140. Advertising and Sales Promotion. (3). Introduction to field of advertising including agencies, media, layout, copy, typography; emphasis on various media associated with sales promotion and on need to coordinate entire promotional mix. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010. 3170. Advertising Management. (3). Case study of advertising functions, emphasizing determination of advertising strategy; planning of creative strategy; planning of media strategy; evaluation of advertising results and introduction to organization and management of advertising function. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3140. 3320. Retailing Fundamentals. (3). Changing concepts of retailing from management viewpoint. Principles that underlie successful operation of enterprises distributing products and services to ultimate consumers. PREREQUISITES: MKTG 3010. 3410. Sales Fundamentals. (3). Basics of personal selling: preparation, personality development, communications, sales interview techniques, ethics, and career opportunities. Selling skills developed via sales presentations, role playing, audio-visual self- observation, and use of sales aids. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010. The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Course 12:03:29 PM]3610. Distribution Concepts. (3). Distribution system within an organization. Emphasis on transportation, customer service, inventory, warehousing and packaging functions. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010. 3620. Logistics Management. (3). Economic, social and political aspects of transportation system of the United States. Interrelationships among transportation, physical distribution, logistics, marketing, production, and financial management as they affect flow of raw materials and finished goods through the firm. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3610. 3630. Transportation Management. (3). Detailed analysis of freight traffic function within firm's logistics system. Includes rate and classification systems, claim liability, shipping document procedures, carrier selection, and other aspects associated with organizing and operating traffic department. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3610. 4080. Marketing Research. (3). Research methods and procedures used in field of marketing to help solve business problems. PREREQUISITES: ISDS 2711, 2750, and MKTG 3010. 4220. Purchasing. (3). Policies for effective and efficient procurement of goods and services for today's industry. Close attention to measurement and evaluation of purchasing performance. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010. 4230. Services Marketing. (3). Broadens and applies marketing concepts and techniques in services industries and compares to tangible goods marketing-all within the framework of total quality management. 4240. Direct Marketing. (3). Topics dealing with implementation of a direct marketing program, including telemarketing, cataloging, direct mail, electronic media, and direct response advertising, and how it fits into overall marketing strategies. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010. 4410. Sales Management. (3). Sales management functions of recruiting and hiring, training and assimilating, planning, controlling and motivating, and sales analysis. Role of personal selling in promotional mix and sales objectives of management. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010. 4470. Negotiation Skills. (3). Emphasis on fundamental skills in negotiation across a variety of settings, including business, law, health care, and public administration. Basics of both collaborative and competitive approaches, including planning tools and techniques; will address international focus. 4490. Sales Technology Applications. (3). In-depth course in various technologies and systems used in sales planning and control. Computer-based applications in sales call planning, territory and time management, prospect planning, and account management. Emphasis on use of interactive video technologies in training and account management. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3410. 4530. International Marketing. (3). Bases and promotion of foreign trade; international marketing organizations and methods; technical and financial features of international marketing. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010. 4570. Import/Export Marketing. (3). In-depth course in international data sources, market analysis, and export mechanics. Emphasis on current international business practices and market conditions. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010. 4620. Carrier Management. (3). Problems confronting managers of transportation companies. Includes carrier organization, operations, marketing strategies, finance, control, sales, labor relations, and shipper-carrier interaction. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3610. 4790. Ethics in Marketing. (3). Survey of concepts, issues, and decisions fundamental to ethical decision making in marketing. Issues and decisions related to strategy planning and implementation in marketing organizations. 4901. Management of Marketing Strategies. (3). Comprehensive study of marketing strategies and how implemented. Computer games and cases as well as "real-world" problems to illustrate application of marketing concepts in practical manner. PREREQUISITES: MKTG 4080. Student must take in senior year. 4910. Problems in Marketing. (1-3). Students carry on approved research projects in their major area under supervision of staff member. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and permission of department chair. 4911. Marketing Internship. (1-6). Internship in business organization to gain on-the-job experience. Project to be approved by department chair and supervised by departmental faculty member. Credit allowed only after acceptance of student's written report by department chair and supervising faculty member. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and minimum QPA of 2.75. 4920-29. Special Topics in Marketing. (3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. May be repeated once with change in topic. PREREQUISITE: consent of department chair. 4996. Senior Honors Thesis in Marketing. (3). Independent research open only to those students enrolled in the honors program. Thesis supervised by departmental faculty member. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and permission of the Director of the College Honors Program. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]COMMUNICATION AND FINE ARTS COURSE DESCRIPTIONSCOMMUNICATION/FINE ARTS (CCFA) ART (ART) COMMUNICATION (COMM) JOURNALISM (JOUR) MUSICMUSIC THEORY AND COMPOSITION (MUTC) MUSIC HISTORY, LITERATURE, AND APPRECIATION (MUHL) SACRED MUSIC (MUSA) APPLIED MUSIC (MUAP) MUSIC EDUCATION (MUSE) COMMERCIAL MUSIC (CMUS) THEATRE (THEA) DANCE (DANC) K100 COMMUNICATION/FINE ARTS (CCFA) 3001. Arts in Education. (3). Integrates art, music, and drama with other subject areas to stimulate creativity and build positive attitudes.Students who wish to apply for credit for experiential learning may obtain guidelines from the Dean of the College of Communication and Fine Arts. Fees for this credit are listed in Fees and Charges. 1900. Introductory Level Experiential Learning in (descriptive title). 2900. Intermediate Level Experiential Learning in (descriptive title). 3900. Advanced Level Experiential Learning in (descriptive title). ARTASSOCIATE PROFESSOR ROBERT E. LEWIS, Chair Room 201, Jones Hall Transfer students seeking advanced standing in art are required to submit a portfolio. In addition to specific prerequisites, junior standing or permission of the instructor is a prerequisite for all 3000 and 4000 level courses in the Department of Art. ART (ART) 1101. Introduction to Art. (3). Fundamental principles of artistic expression as basis for understanding Western and non- Western traditions in the visual arts. [G]. 1201. Basic Design. (3). Basic design factors of line, value, texture, form, and space in problem solving approach to stimulate student's visual perception and to encourage inventive manipulation of tools, materials, and techniques. Development of vocabulary for professional practice encouraged through lectures, discussions, and class critique. 1204. Color Fundamentals. (3). Light and color in relation to form. Mixing of colors and notation of hue, value, chroma relationships. Interaction of color; color harmony, psychology, and symbolism in a variety of mediums. PREREQUISITE: ART 1201. 1210. Two-Dimensional Design. (3). Elements and principles of visual design studies through a problem-solving approach. Encourages perceptual growth through the use of varied tools, materials, and techniques. NOTE: Students may not receive credit for both ART 1210 and 2201. 1215. Three-Dimensional Design. (3). Exploration of design elements and principles as applied to development of three- dimensional construction. Imaginative and fundamental use of materials in visual problem solving. NOTE: ART 1215 may be used for the purpose of improving a grade in ART 2202. PREREQUISITE: ART 1210. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]1233. Introduction to Interior Design. (3). Processes of interior design and various aspects and considerations involved in practice of both residential and commercial design. 1311. Beginning Drawing. (3). Introduction to materials and techniques of basic drawing. Study of still life and nature to develop perception of line, value, space, and volume. Use of contour and gesture. 1314. Figure Structure. (3). Use of basic drawing materials and techniques. Analysis and rendering of the human form, including work from skeleton and from female or male models; study of anatomy and proportion. Emphasis on contour, gesture, value, and volume. PREREQUISITE: ART 1311. 2101. World Art I. (3). Development of visual arts from prehistoric times through medieval period, their use by man as social, cultural, and educational force; brief survey of art of Far East. 2102. World Art II. (3). Continues (but does not pre-suppose) World Art I; development of visual arts from medieval period through Renaissance to present. 2201. Design. (3). Continued study of the elements of design, using variety of materials and methods. NOTE: Students may not receive credit for both ART 2201 and 1210. PREREQUISITES: ART 1201 and 1204, or permission of instructor. 2213. Typographic Design I. (3). Terminology, technology, and design aspects of typography for effective communication. PREREQUISITE: ART 2201 or permission of instructor. 2221. Graphic Production and Processes I. (3). Introduction to materials and processes of graphic design with attention to manual skills necessary to prepare comprehensive layouts and camera-ready art. PREREQUISITE: ART 1204, 1314 or permission of instructor.2233. Interior Drafting Practices. (3). Introduction to equipment, standards and requirements of interior design drafting practices through lecture and space planning and production of working drawings. 2234. Interior Color and Composition. (3). Application of color theory and design-composition to specific requirements of interior design practice, through lectures and studio assignments. PREREQUISITES: ART 1233, 2233; or permission of instructor. 2238. CADD for Interior Design. (3). Introduction to use of microcomputer software in production of interior design drawings and documents. Exploration of computer applications in design development and presentation. PREREQUISITE: ART 2233. 2313. Drawing and Composition. (3). Problems in visual communication; emphasis on compositional and technical considerations. Analytical and objective investigations of organizational problems. Use of varied graphic media and methods. PREREQUISITES: ART 1311 and 1314, or permission of instructor. 2314. Drawing and Concept. (3). Problems in visual communication; emphasis on personal expression. Conceptual and subjective investigation of individual problem-solving strategies. Use of varied graphic media and methods. PREREQUISITE: ART 2313 or permission of instructor. 2331. Painting I. (3). (3331). Preliminary course in theory and practice of oil painting. 2351. Introduction to Printmaking. (3). Printmaking processes: relief, intaglio, planography, and stencil, focusing on relief and screenprinting.2511 . Sculpture I. (3). Introduction to basic materials and techniques of sculpture. 2523. Ceramics I. (3). (3523). Introduction to clay and ceramic process. Emphasis on thoughtful, purposeful exploration of medium, regarding both pottery vessel and nonvessel object. 2701. Photography I. (3). Basic techniques and processes of black and white still photography. History and aesthetics of photography as fine art. Emphasis on personalized perception and seeing photographically. 2702. Photography II. (3). Exploration of black and white still photography as means to personal expressive statement and self- discovery. Initial emphasis on portraiture. PREREQUISITE: ART 2701 or permission of instructor. 3103. History of Furniture and Interiors I. (3). Emphasis on Renaissance, Baroque, Rococo and Neo-Classical periods. 3104. History of Furniture and Interiors II. (3). 19th and 20th century survey; emphasis on development of period revivals, Art Nouveau, Art Deco, International Style and other innovations in Europe and America. 3204. Housing and Equipment. (3). (HMEC 4203, 3204). (Same as CSED 3204). Socioeconomics and design aspects of housing; kitchen planning principles: selection, use, and care of household equipment. PREREQUISITE: CSED 2104. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]3213. Typographic Design II. (3). Advanced problems involving visual organization and typography as an expressive design element. PREREQUISITE: ART 2213 or permission of instructor. 3221. Visual Thinking. (3). Fundamental methods in generating ideas for effective visual communication. PREREQUISITE: ART 2213 or permission of instructor. 3222. Graphic Design Methodology. (3). Emphasis on intellectual processes underlying applied design. PREREQUISITE: ART 3221 or permission of instructor. 3225. Computer Graphics. (3). Hands-on training in use of graphics hardware and software in design and production of commercial graphics, illustrations and animation. 3227. Graphic Production and Processes II. (3) (2222). Methods of preparing art for reproduction with emphasis on Macintosh electronic pre-press. PREREQUISITES: ART 3213, 3221. 3233. Components of Interiors. (3). Technical aspects of surface and structural materials of interior design in relation to building codes and public health, safety and welfare. PREREQUISITE: ART 1233 or permission of instructor. 3234. Interior Design Studio I. (3). Application of material covered in basic interior design courses to theoretical designs for complete environments. Design development, production of working and presentation drawings and specifications studied through lectures and studio projects. PREREQUISITES: ART 2233, 2234, 3233, 3235, 3236, 3237, 3312; or permission of instructor. 3235. Commercial Lighting Design. (3). Comprehensive study of lighting sources and principles, color and applications, including circuiting, switching, dimming systems, task-ambient lighting and industry resources. Zonal cavity method and point source calculations applied through lectures and studio assignments. PREREQUISITES: ART 2233, 2234, 3233; or permission of instructor. [C].3236. Rendering for Interiors. (3). Comparative application of variety of techniques using black-white and color mediums for interior perspective illustration. Lectures and studio assignments in line, texture, shade-shadow, volume, color and free-hand drawing. PREREQUISITES: ART 2233, 2234, 3312; or permission of instructor. 3237. Interior Construction Drafting. (3). Principles of building construction and their application through development of working drawings for both residential and commercial projects. Building methods and materials studied through lectures and studio assignments. PREREQUISITE: ART 2233, 3233, or permission of instructor. 3238. Interior Detail Drawing. (3). Design and drawing of interior millwork and casework. Production and specification for construction studied through lectures and studio assignments. PREREQUISITE: ART 3237 or permission of instructor. 3312. Interior/Perspective Drawing. (3). Various perspective systems applied to one- and two-point drawing techniques for interior design. PREREQUISITES: ART 1311. 3332. Painting II. (3). Continuation of ART 2331; attention to essentials of still-life, landscape, and portrait painting. 3351. Intaglio Printmaking. (3). In-depth study of metal plate intaglio printmaking processes: engraving, drypoint, etching, aquatint. Introduction to color intaglio and mixed media including relief printing. Emphasizes personal expression. PREREQUISITE: ART 2351 or permission of instructor. 3352. Lithography (3). In-depth study of stone lithography. Introduction to aluminum plate litho, color litho, and mixed media color printing. Emphasizes personal expression. PREREQUISITE: ART 2351 or permission of instructor. 3411. Art for Children. (3). Introduction to skills and methods for instructional art programs in studio and art appreciation activities; emphasis on materials and ideas for children's art expression and development. 3431. Multicultural Art and Design. (3). Studio activities combining visual art traditions of world cultures with innovative expression. Includes emphasis on non-European sources for contemporary art works. PREREQUISITES: ART 2101, 2102, 2313, or permission of instructor. 3511. Sculpture II. (3). Problems of sculptural form as expressed in metal, wood, and related materials. 3512. Sculpture III. (3). Continuation of ART 3511; emphasis on techniques. 3524. Ceramics II. (3). Some consideration to fundamental historical and aesthetic aspects peculiar to ceramics as a studio medium. PREREQUISITE: ART 2523 or permission of instructor. 3701. Photography III. (3). Continuation of ART 2702. Closer examination of several key photographers' work as point of departure for student work. How student work relates to traditions. PREREQUISITE: ART 2702, junior standing, or permission of instructor. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]4010-19-6010-19. Special Topics in Studio Art. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. 4020-29-6020-29. Special Topics In Art Education. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. 4030-39-6030-39. Special Topics in Art History. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. 4111-6111. Art and Archaeology of Egypt. (3). Predynastic to Late Period. PREREQUISITE: ART 2101 or permission of instructor. [W]. 4112-6112. Egyptian Art and Archaeology in the Old and Middle Kingdom. (3). Art, architecture, and archaeology, 1500 B.C.-642 A.D. PREREQUISITE: ART 2101 or permission of instructor. 4113-6113. Egyptian Art and Archaeology in the New Kingdom and Late Period. (3). Art, architecture, and archaeology, 1500-332 B.C. PREREQUISITE: ART 2101 or permission of instructor. 4121-6121. Ancient Art of the Near East. (3). Architecture, sculpture, painting, and the minor arts in Mesopotamia, Anatolia, and Syria-Palestine. PREREQUISITE: ART 2101 or permission of instructor. 4123-6123. Greek Art. (3). Architecture, sculpture and painting from the Bronze Age to the end of the Hellenistic period. 4124-6124. Roman Art. (3). Architecture, sculpture and painting from Etruscan Rome to the fall of the Empire. 4125-6125. Art and Archaeology of Pompeii. (3). Pompeii's excavations, art, artifacts and architecture in reconstructing ancient Roman daily life. [W]. 4129. Studies In Ancient and Medieval Architecture. (3). Selected topics comparing the architecture of ancient Egypt, the Classical world, and Medieval Europe. PREREQUISITE: ART 2101. [C]. 4131-6131. Early Christian and Byzantine Art. (3). Development of architecture, sculpture, and painting through early medieval period; emphasis on Early Christian and Byzantine Art. PREREQUlSlTE: ART 2101 or permission of instructor. 4134-6134. Romanesque and Gothic Art. (3). Development of architecture, sculpture, and painting from Carolingian (Proto- Romanesque) Period through Gothic Period. PREREQUISITE: ART 2101 or permission of instructor. 4141-6141. Art of the Early Renaissance in Italy. (3). Architecture, sculpture and painting of Italy, 1300-1510. PREREQUISITE: ART 2101 or permission of instructor. 4142-6142. Northern Renaissance Art. (3). Fifteenth Century Art in Northern Europe; emphasis on panel painting, manuscript illumination and printmaking. PREREQUISITE: ART 2101 or permission of instructor. 4143-6143. Art of the High Renaissance in Italy. (3). Sixteenth Century Art in Italy; highlights works of Michelangelo, Raphael, Titian, and the Mannerists. PREREQUISITE: ART 2102 or permission of instructor. [W]. 4146-6146. Baroque Art. (3). Architecture, sculpture, and painting produced in Europe during Seventeenth Century. PREREQUISITE: ART 2102 or permission of instructor. 4151-6151. Nineteenth Century Art. (3). Art movements of Nineteenth Century from Neo-Classicism to Impressionism. PREREQUISITE: ART 2102 or permission of instructor. 4154-6154. Modern Art. (3). Major developments in European painting and sculpture from 1890's until World War II; includes Fauvism, Cubism, and Surrealism. PREREQUISITE: ART 2102 or permission of instructor. 4156-6156. Art Since 1945. (3). Major art movements and contemporary schools of criticism from World War II to present. Major trends examined include Abstract Expressionism, Pop Art and Earth Art. PREREQUISITE: ART 2102 or permission of instructor. 4158-6158. Modern Architecture. (3). Survey of 19th century styles, 20th century masters, and contemporary developments in architecture; includes historic preservation. 4162-6162. Latin American Art. (3). Hispanic arts of the Americas from 1500 to the present in relation to Iberian and Indian traditions.4163-6163. Pre-Colombian Art. (3). Ancient art of Mexico, Central America and South America from about 1000 B. C. to European contact. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]4166-6166. Art of the United States. (3). (4167, 4168). Survey of American painting, sculpture and art theory from colonial period to 1945. PREREQUISITE: ART 2102 or permission of instructor. 4181-6181. Traditional Arts of Africa, Oceania and North America. (3). Survey of the arts created by native Americans of U.S. and Canada, peoples of sub-Saharan Africa and Pacific islands, examined in relation to their cultural context and heritage. 4195. Proseminar In Art History. (3). Investigation of selected topics in art history with emphasis on development of research techniques and methodologies. Oral presentation and writing of thesis paper. PREREQUISITE: senior status with 18 semester hours in art history [I]. 4211. Writing and the Design Process. (3). (3211). Focus on synthesis of verbal and visual problem-solving methods and the use of writing as integral phase of design process. PREREQUISITE: ART 2213 or permission of instructor. [W]. 4221-6221. Graphic Design for Print Communications. (3). Practical problems in areas of publication, information, corporate and promotional design. PREREQUISITE: ART 3222 or permission of instructor. 4222-6222. Graphic Design for Video Communications. (3). Study and execution of graphics for television, incorporating computer animation and design for the video environment. PREREQUISITE: ART 4221 or permission of instructor. 4223-6223. Specialized Studies In Graphic Design. (3). Advanced instruction in either illustration, typography and publication design, 3-dimensional design, corporate and promotional design, or electronic imaging. May be repeated to a maximum of 12 hours when topic varies. PREREQUISITE: ART 3213, 3222; or permission of instructor. 4224-6224. History of Graphic Design. (3). Cultural, theoretical, and stylistic aspects of major movements in the field of graphic design in Europe and America from Industrial Revolution to present. 4231-6231. Professional Practices: Graphic Design. (3-12). Instruction by a graphic arts practitioner in one of these professional settings: design and concept, copy preparation, advertising graphics, or commercial photography. May be repeated to a maximum of 12 hours with approval of the advisor when topics vary, but not for the purpose of improving a grade previously earned.4232-6232. Visual Design Business Practices. (3). Application of principles, procedures, and business practices of visual design. PREREQUISITE: junior standing or permission of instructor. 4233-6233. Design Practice Studio. (3). Work under faculty supervision on projects for institutional and corporate clients; assist in developing publications, exhibits, signage and other graphics, and participate in professional design process from project inception to completion. May be repeated to a maximum of 12 hours with approval of advisor, but not for the purpose of improving a grade previously earned. PREREQUISITE: senior standing. Admission by portfolio review only. 4235. Graphic Design Portfolio Seminar. (3). Methodology and techniques in graphic design applied to an extended visual communication project. Written proposal, preparation of comprehensive layouts and oral/visual presentation of project. PREREQUISITES: art major with concentration in graphic design and senior status. [I]. 4237-6237. Interior Design Studio II. (3). Comprehensive assignment in commercial design including design development, space planning, building code requirements, and construction and specification documentation for barrier-free design studied through lectures and design assignments. PREREQUISITES: ART 3234 or permission of instructor. 4238-6238. Interior Design Studio III. (3). Further advanced studio assignments in commercial interior design studied through lectures and design projects. PREREQUISITES: ART 3238, 4237; or permission of instructor. 4239-6239. Interior Design Business Practices. (3). History and organization of interior design profession, study of business methods and practices, and formulation of resume and design portfolio. PREREQUISITE: ART 3234 or permission of instructor. 4240-6240. Interior Design Internship. (3). Supervised apprenticeship in interior design industry. Placement requires approval of Interior Design faculty. PREREQUISITES: ART 3234 and permission of instructor. 4251. Interior Design Senior Project. (3). Addresses creative, professional, technical, and historical issues involved in problem chosen and defined by student. Culminates in formal presentation of unique solution to problem. PREREQUISITE: ART 4238 or permission of instruction. 4321-6321. Drawing and Painting I. (3). Advanced drawing and painting methods; emphasis on transparent watercolor. PREREQUISITE: ART 2313 or permission of instructor. 4322-6322. Drawing and Painting II. (3). Continuation of ART 4321; attention to various mixed media. PREREQUISITES: ART 2313, 4321; or permission of instructor. 4331-6331. Painting III. (3). Advanced problems in oil painting, presupposing that student has mastered basic techniques and is The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]ready for a more experimental approach to subject. PREREQUISITES: ART 2331, 3332; or permission of instructor. 4332-6332. Painting IV. (3). Continuation of ART 4331; emphasis on development of personal style. PREREQUISITES: ART 2331, 3332, 4331; or permission of instructor. 4341-6341. Illustration. (3). Survey of many areas requiring services of illustrator and including preparation of book, magazine, advertising, and television illustrations. 4351-6351. Advanced Printmaking I. (3). Specialization in one or two printmaking media with emphasis on development of personal imagery and technical skills. PREREQUISITES: ART 2351, 3351 or 3352; or permission of instructor. 4352-6352. Advanced Printmaking II. (3). Advanced work in one or two printmaking media with continued development of personal imagery and advanced technical skills. PREREQUISITES: ART 2351, 3351 or 3352, and 4351; or permission of instructor. 4353-6353. Computer Imaging in Printmaking/Photography I. (3). Use of digital imaging in one of several output options including: lithography, screenprinting, etching, silver and non-silver photographic processes. Emphasis on personal expression PREREQUISITES: A computer course and either of the following: ART 2701, 2351; or permission of instructor. 4354-6354. Computer Imaging in Printmaking/Photography II. (1-3). Advanced project using digital imaging. Proposal for study to be approved in advance. Emphasis on personal expression. PREREQUISITE: 4353 or 6353; or permission of instructor. May be repeated to a maximum of 6 hours. 4380-6380. Museums in Society. (3). (Same as ANTH 4380). History of museums and how they function in society. Development of major collections and role of museums as centers of research and education and interpreters of social values. 4381-6381. Art Curatorial Techniques. (3). Curatorial responsibilities and functions: receiving and shipping methods, registration, physical and environmental security, research, conservation, and study of art market and publications. 4382-6382. Professional Practices in Museums. (3). (Same as ANTH 4382). Basic aspects of museum organization. Examines roles of directors and trustees, responsibilities of professional staff including registrars and curators, and scope of museum education programs. Features presentations by museum professionals. [W]. 4384-6384. Museum Internship. (3-6). Approved internship with cooperating museum or gallery, emphasizing curatorial, program and/or operational duties. PREREQUISITES: permission of the instructor and one of the following or the equivalent: ART 4380, 4381 or 4382. 4410-6410. Art Education Independent Study. (1-3). Theoretical and pragmatic ideas relevant to teaching of art. May be repeated to a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITES: ART 3411, 3431; or permission of instructor. 4424-6424. Fiber Art and Design I. (3). Fiber arts concepts explored through weaving, applique, basketry and fabric printing/dyeing.4425-6425. Fiber Art and Design II. (3). Advanced fiber arts concepts explored through in-depth study of weaving, applique, basketry, or fabric printing/dyeing processes. PREREQUISITE: ART 4424 or permission of instructor. 4511-6511. Sculpture IV. (3). Advanced work in various sculptural media. PREREQUISITES: ART 2511, 3511, 3512; or permission of instructor. 4512-6512. Sculpture V. (3). Continuation of 4511; emphasis on personal expression. PREREQUISITE: ART 4511 or permission of instructor. 4521-6521. Ceramics III. (3). Advanced studies in ceramic process and technique. Concentration on development of personal attitudes toward work. PREREQUISITE: ART 3524 or permission of instructor. 4522-6522. Ceramics IV. (3). Technical competence and the production of ceramic objects reflective of genuinely personal involvement. PREREQUISITE: ART 4521 or permission of instructor. 4610. Senior Studio. (3). Studio production and associated research that interrelates historical, technical, and aesthetic components of visual art. Contract for study project to be approved by instructor and faculty committee in semester prior to registration. PREREQUISITES: Art major, senior status with concentration in Art Education; Ceramics/Painting/Printmaking/Sculpture; or Photography. [I]. 4611. Senior Problems. (3). Original research in student's area of concentration, extent of the project to be approved by art faculty.4621-6621. Workshop In Art I. (1-3). Specific art problems as they apply to individual student; emphasis on basic art concepts and creative experience. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]4622-6622. Workshop in Art II. (1-3). Continuation of ART 4621, providing study of problems appropriate to need of individual student. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4641-6641. Study and Travel In Art (3 or 6). Travel to important art areas of world and specialized study under direction of faculty member of Department of Art. 4650-6650. Professional Art Practices. (3). Development of skills needed for success as practicing professional artist, including portfolio preparation and presentation, marketing, contracts, copyrights, and alternative art careers. 4701-6701. Color Photography. (3). Exploration of photographic perception in color. Survey of history and aesthetics of color photography. Techniques of color photography; emphasis on color printing. PREREQUISITE: ART 2702, junior standing, or permission of instructor. 4702-6702. Photographic Materials and Processes. (3). Advanced technical course exploring creative potential in various contemporary photography materials, processes and techniques. Emphasis on aesthetic application of those materials and techniques. PREREQUISITE: ART 2702 or permission of instructor. 4703-6703. Alternative Photographic Processes. (3). (3702). Exploration of creative potential of archaic and non-traditional photographic processes such as Cyanotype, Gum Bichromate and Kwik-Print. PREREQUISITE: ART 2702 or permission of instructor. 4704-6704. Photographic Llghting. (3). Advanced theory, technique, and equipment used by professional photographers for black and white and color. Emphasis on aesthetic application in actual practice. PREREQUISITE: ART 2702 or permission of instructor.4711. Advanced Photography Seminar. (1-3). Supervised problems course. Emphasis on student's finding personal direction within own work, pursuing that direction, and discussing it in class critique. May be repeated to a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: ART 3701 or permission of instructor. 4712. Photography Portfolio Seminar. (1-3). Student must make photographs that will be used to produce photography book or portfolio (bound by the student) that represents coherent, in--depth picture statement, and that will contain written introduction. May be repeated, not to exceed 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: ART 4711 or permission of instructor. 4721-6721. History of Photography. (3). Critical and aesthetic consideration of the photographic image from pre-history to 1945.4722-6722. History and Criticism of Contemporary Photography. (3). Major styles and movements since 1945 from historical and critical perspectives with emphasis on critical writers such as Sontag, Barthes, and Kozloff. COMMUNICATIONRoom 143, Theatre and Communication Arts Building The Department of Communication offers a B.A. degree in Communication with concentrations in Broadcast and Electronic Media, Communication, and Film and Video Production. NOTE: In addition to specific prerequisites, junior standing or permission of the department chair is a prerequisite for all 3000- and 4000-level courses in the Department of Communication. COMMUNICATION (COMM) 1211. Voice and Articulation. (3). Principles of effective voice usage. Emphasis on improving voice characteristics and diction. 1311. Public Speaking. (3). Principles of ethical and effective public speaking; practice in construction and delivery of original speeches in presence of audience. 1780. Introduction to Human Communication. (3). Principles and processes underlying all human communication. Study of communication models, communication purposes and breakdowns, and variables related to interpersonal, small group, intercultural, and public communication. 1781. Introduction to the Rhetoric of Mass Media. (3). Principles, values, forms, and effects of persuasive public communication. Consideration of rhetorical styles and effects in speeches, debates, documentaries, and dramatic and entertainment forms.1851. Introduction to Film. (3). Comprehensive study of the forms, functions, and history of film art. Emphasis on developing The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]student's critical skills and aesthetic appreciation through analysis of complex formal, social, historical, and cultural dimensions of the art of film. [G]. 2381. Oral Communication. (3). Principles and practice of basic oral communication forms with emphasis on listening and critical understanding related to contemporary mass media, especially television and film, and to public information and decision-making. [G].3321. Argumentation and Debate. (3). Theory of argumentation with emphasis on developing skills in analysis, reasoning, and use of evidence in various debate situations and understanding role of debate in public decision-making. PREREQUISITE: COMM 2381.3322. Theories of Persuasion. (3). Principles underlying any communication designed to influence attitudes or behavior. Includes approaches to motivation, perception, message structure, attention, reasoning, audience analysis, persuasibility, and attitude change. Items for analysis drawn from speeches, advertising, radio, television and film. 3330. Methods of Communication Analysis. (3). Examination and application of qualitative and quantitative methods of criticism and research. [C]. PREREQUISITE: COMM 1780 or JOUR 1700. 3341. Discussion. (3). Study and practice of principles and techniques of discussion, dealing with current problems of wide interest and significance. 3342. Communication and Leadership. (3). Relationship between communication variables and leadership styles and effectiveness in various organizational and group settings. 3361. African-American Rhetoric. (3). Speeches and rhetoric of African-Americans. Emphasis on spokespersons such as Walker, Turner, Douglass, Washington, DuBois, Malcolm X, King, Davis, and Jackson. 3371. Freedom and Responsibility of Speech. (3). Development of freedom of speech as Western value and attendant problems of ethical practice, limitations, and responsibility. 3800. Elements of Broadcasting and Electronic Media. (3). (3881). Survey of broadcast and electronic media dealing with technology, history, programming, economics, advertising, and regulation. 3801. TV Production Techniques for Journalists. (4). For majors in the broadcast journalism sequence; basic principles and techniques of video production. Production exercises. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 3802. Production Techniques for Organizations. (3). Location video and slide/tape equipment, operations and techniques. Emphasis on informational and public relations programming. Not open to Film and Video Production students. 3820. Broadcast Preparation and Performance. (3). Skills required for on-air performance in broadcasting emphasizing use of voice and copy preparation; presentation of public affairs programming, documentary narration, sportscasting, newscasting and combo-announcing. 3821. Radio Production and Studio Operations. (3). (3825). Preparation, production and evaluation of programs, including talk, discussion, interview, music documentary and special event shows; emphasis on construction, editing, and compilation for broadcast use. 3822. Audio Production for Film and Video. (3). (3825). Principles and practice of audio (recording, editing, mixing, and design) with emphasis on film and video production. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 3823. Film and Video Production I. (4). Basic production skills and theory; photography; 16mm cinematography; and small TV studio. Hands-on production exercises. 3824. Film and Video Production II. (4). Continued production skills and theory in film and video; extensive production exercises. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3823 or permission of instructor. 3842. Television Studio Production I. (4). Techniques of Studio TV production, including staging and direction of programs. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3823. 3861. Television and Culture. (3). Social, political, and aesthetic dimensions of television in modern culture. [W]. 4011-6011. Communication in Organizations. (3). (3011). Study of communication systems and problems in contemporary organizations with emphasis on the role of communication in corporate culture and in organizational change. 4013-6013. Communication in Political Campaigning. (3). (3013). Forms and effects of communication between politicians and constituencies; emphasis on campaign rhetoric via mass media, debates, and model speeches. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]4210-19-6210-19. Special Topics In Communication Studies. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. 4220-29-6220-29. Special Topics in Film. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. 4341-6341. Interpersonal Communication. (3). Theory and research regarding one-on-one communication; effective practices for various interpersonal settings. 4342-6342. Small Group Communication. (3). Advanced study of group communication theory emphasizing group membership, member perceptions, group development, group process, and group outcomes. 4360-6360. History and Criticism of Public Discourse. (3). Survey and analysis of speeches and speakers vital to social, political, and cultural movement in Western civilization. Ancient to contemporary times. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. [W].4373-6373. Interracial Communication. (3). Special problems encountered in communication among races. Readings, discussion, and field study on how prejudice, stereotypes, and self-concepts can affect communication; exploration of rhetorical methods to minimize these problems. 4374. Directed Studies in Communication Arts. (1-3). Independent research in areas of special interest Includes rhetoric, broadcast and electronic media, and film. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4375-6375. Intercultural Communication. (3). Special problems encountered in communication between people of different cultural backgrounds. Focus on understanding communicative interaction between and among people with different national/cultural backgrounds and functioning more effectively in multi-cultural settings. [W]. 4380. Communication and Conflict. (3). Theories and methods of conflict management and resolution focusing on practical communication skills. Concepts of perception, listening and peacemaking emphasized. 4381. Rhetoric and Public Controversy. (3). Intensive examination of the presentation of public issues in political and entertainment forms (speeches, drama, television, and film). [I]. 4704. Theories of Communication. (3). A review of major theoretical approaches to human communication, ranging from information to systems theory. 4802-6802. Internship. (1-3). Field studies in communication. Supervised practical work with government institution, private business, film company, or broadcast and electronic media firm. Written analysis of experience required. May be repeated for maximum of 6 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. (S/U). 4810-6810. Broadcast Regulation and Program Policy. (3). Effects of FCC and other governmental regulations on broadcast and electronic media management and operations. Topics include licensing, renewals, content control, politics, and copyright. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3800. 4811-6811. Radio and Television Programming. (3). Analysis of individual program formats (with examples); use of this information along with ratings and other audience research to study design of program schedules. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3800. 4812-6812. Communications Law in the Performing Arts. (3). Artist, performer, management contractual relationships; acquisition, copyright and disposition of literary and audio-visual properties; production and distribution agreements; advertising law and other matters for TV, motion picture, radio and stage businesses. 4824-6824. Clnematography/Videography. (3). Art of visual interpretation with strong concentration in theory and techniques of lighting. Experience with professional film and video cameras and lighting equipment. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3824. 4825-6825. Editing of Film and Videotape. (3). Concentrates on the aesthetics of continuity development in a variety of editing styles; includes techniques of editing videotape and double-system film. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3824. 4831-6831. Broadcast and Cable Sales and Advertising. (3). Relation of broadcasting and cable sales and advertising to networks, station representatives and salespeople; role of sponsors, agencies, and allied groups. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3800. 4841-6841. Television Workshop. (4). Production of television programming for local cablecasting. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 semester hours; repetition will not result in a change of any grade previously given. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3842 and COMM 3824, or permission of instructor. 4842. Television Studio Production II. (4). (4840). Advanced training in TV studio/multiple camera techniques. Extensive production work. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3842. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]4850-6850. Film History I. (3). (4852). Historical survey of motion pictures from medium's pre-history to 1940. Emphasis on narrative film. 4851-6851. Film History II. (3). Historical survey of the major movements, genres, and themes in narrative film from 1940 to 1960.4853-6853. Documentary Form in Film. (3). Development of non-fiction film as rhetorical and expressive form. Analysis of individual films, genres, and filmmakers. 4854-6854. Documentary Form in Broadcasting. (3). History, theory, and criticism of non-fiction broadcasting, including docudrama and television documentaries. 4856-6856. Women and Film. (3). Women as performers, viewers, subjects, and creators in American and international cinema. 4857-6857. History of Broadcast and Electronic Media. (3). Comprehensive study of history of broadcast and electronic media in United States as developed from 1895 to present. Use of primary sources. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3800. 4858-6858. Contemporary Cinema. (3). Major themes and styles in international and American narrative film from 1960 to present. [W]. 4871-6871. Broadcast and Cable Management. (3). Theories of management, special problems and situations confronting managers of broadcast and cable outlets, including personnel, engineering operations, programming, and sales functions. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3800. 4891-6891. Producing and Directing for Film and Video. (3). Research and script preparation; budgeting and production management; working with actors and crew. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3824. 4892. Film and Video Production. (1-3). Film and video production workshop. Class members write, produce, direct, or assume crew responsibilities on productions. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. See departmental guidelines for independent production requirements and procedures. PREREQUISITES: COMM 3824 and permission of instructor. 4960-6960. Documentary Writing. (3). Writing for non-fiction media. 4970-6970. Screenwriting. (3). Writing for fiction film and television. Basic dramatic theory, narrative structure, characterization, dialogue, adaptation and the unique demands of the audio-visual media. 4980. Honors Studies. (3). (COMM, THCA). Reserved for students enrolled in Communication Arts Honors Program. May be repeated for a maximum of 15 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Director of Communication Honors Program. 4982. Honors Seminar. (3). (THCA). Intensive study of particular problems in communication. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when semester topics vary. PREREQUISITE: permission of Director of Communication Honors Program. 4993. Senior Practicum. (3). Independent work in radio, video, or film production. Each student has complete creative control of a program from conception through final product. See departmental guidelines for independent production requirements and procedures. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. [I]. 4999. Senior Honors Thesis. (3). (COMM 4981, THCA 4999). Supervised independent research project. Open only to students enrolled in the Communication Honors Program. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: permission of Director of Communication Honors Program. JOURNALISMPROFESSOR DAN L. LATTIMORE, Chair Room 300, Meeman Journalism Building JOURNALISM (JOUR) 1700. Survey of Mass Communication. (3). Social background, scope, functions, and organization of modern communication media, attention to all major mass communication media; philosophy and goals of modern journalism; impact on governmental, social and economic systems. 2121. Elementary News Writing. (3). Basic instruction in journalistic forms and style; use of computer in composition of news reports or articles and in solution of news writing problems; laboratory writing exercises on computer; one lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Passing grade on the Journalism Department's Writing Proficiency Exam. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]2123. Editing I. (3). Practice in headline writing, editing, and newspaper makeup and study of contemporary editing problems. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 2121. 2520. Press Photography. (3) Taking pictures with news camera, developing film, making enlargements, cropping and scaling for publication. Students may bring their own cameras. Open to non-majors with permission of instructor. One lecture/four laboratory hours. PREREQUISITE: ART 2701. 3123. News Feature Writing. (3). Fundamentals of non-fiction feature writing for newspapers, magazines, company publications and broadcast news presentations. Story ideas, personality profiles, humor articles and complex, news-related features developed. 3124. Reporting. (3). (3720). Gathering news of university community with laboratory writing assignments. PREREQUISITES: JOUR 2121, 2123. 3205. Magazine Article Writing. (3) Free-lance writing techniques; preparation of queries and articles for submission; generation and research of ideas appropriate for magazine market. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3123 or 3720 or permission of instructor. [W].3300. Survey of Advertising. (3). (2300). Exploration of creative function of advertising; emphasis on role of media. 3322. Advertising Layout and Production. (3) Design and production of printed media with emphasis on the printed advertisement.3324. Advertising Copy Writing. (3). Principles of advertising psychology in relation to proven techniques for writing effective copy; approximately half of course devoted to practice in writing copy and preparing rough layouts. Typing proficiency required. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 2121 or permission of instructor. 3335. Advertising Sales. (3). Practical experience in preparation and selling of completed advertisements; students will work with own clients throughout semester. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3322, 3324 or permission of instructor. 3345. Advertising Research. (3). Fundamentals in advertising research: nature of the market, appropriate advertising strategies, message effectiveness and media audiences. Primary and secondary research, sampling, questionnaire design, survey, and data processing and analysis. NOTE: Must be taken before JOUR 4328. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3300. [C]. 3400. Introduction to Public Relations. (3). Development, scope, and modern role of public relations; emphasis on case studies, lectures, and experimentation with major public relations tools and practices. 3410. Public Relations Research. (3). (4410). Identifying, characterizing and evaluating stakeholder groups and alternative channels of communication. Formal research procedures include sampling, instrument design, information gathering, data processing, analysis and reporting. [C]. 3421. Public Relations Writing. (3). Emphasis on communication tactics. Plan, write, and produce public relations tools. Audience and media selection. Course covers print and electronic media. Two lectures, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: JOUR 2121, 3400, 3410. [W]. 3422. Electronic Media in Public Relations. (3). Planning and writing public relations copy for audio-visual presentations, radio, television, satellite-based communications networks, videotext, teleconferencing, computer-based communications and other electronic delivery systems. PREREQUISITES: JOUR 3400; COMM 3802; JOUR 3421 or permission of instructor. 3526. Digital Imagery in Journalism. (3). Story construction and reinforcement utilizing digital imaging elements including selection, editing, ethics, and story reinforcement in journalism publications including print, desk-top, and electronic media. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 2121. 3625. Radio and Television News Writing and Editing. (3). Processing of news for radio and television; attention to present- day style used by electronic media. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 2121. 3649. Radio News Practicum. (3). Applied skills in producing, writing, reporting, and voicing daily news and information programming for campus radio station WUMR. One lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3625 or permission of instructor. (S/U). 3700. History of Journalism. (3). Origin and development of American journalism; students who enroll should have completed HIST 2601 and 2602 or equivalent. 3712. Information Retrieval and Analysis. (3). Using computers to develop and execute search strategies in multiple on-line databases. Critical analysis and archiving of collected infromation. 3800. Journalism Seminar. (1). Weekly presentation by media professionals on topics in their fields of journalistic expertise. Students prepare for discussion sessions through assigned readings. May be repeated for a maximum of 2 hours credit. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]PREREQUISITE: junior standing. 3900. Computer Publishing Techniques. (3). Computer design and production of printed materials using desktop publishing software to create simple fliers, brochures and newsletters; one lecture, four laboratory hours per week. 4120-6120. Reporting Public Issues. (3). Analyzing and writing news reports about government, courts, energy, economy, taxes, education, environment, medicine and science. Stresses relationship between current issues and public's need to be informed. Emphasis on topics vital to large urban society. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3124 or 3625. [W]. 4124-6124. Computer-Assisted Reporting. (3). Advanced use of computer technology and investigative techniques to access, analyze and develop database information in combination with traditional news reporting. PREREQUISITES: News Editorial Students: JOUR 3124; Broadcast News Students: JOUR 3625. 4125. Editing II. (3). (3113, 3125). Practical editing applications using computer for page makeup and design; emphasis on entire editing process combining text and visual material. 4130. Writing Internship. (3). Work in practical assignments at local media under supervision of qualified practitioners. NOTE: Students who have received credit for JOUR 4330, 4430 or 4630 may not receive credit for JOUR 4130. PREREQUISITE: permission of department chair. (S/U only). 4214-6214. Magazine Editing and Production. (3). (3214). Editing and production problems of magazines; emphasis on business, industrial, and home periodicals; headline and title writing; pictorial copy layout, staff organization; and production processes. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3900 or permission of instructor. [I]. 4327. Media Planning. (3). Procedures for analyzing the advertising situation, writing advertising and media goals, and setting advertising appropriations. Use of a microcomputer program to develop and evaluate optimum advertising media schedules. NOTE: Offered only in fall term and must be taken before 4328. PREREQUISITES: JOUR 3300 and MKTG 3010 or 3011. 4328-6328. Strategic Advertising Campaigns. (3). Development of creative strategy and its execution to include layouts, audio tapes, slide shows, storyboards and sales promotion application. NOTE: Offered only in spring semester. PREREQUISITES: JOUR 3322, 3324, 3345, 4327. [W,I]. 4330. Advertising Internship. (3). Work under supervision of qualified practitioners in local advertising agency; advertising department of newspaper, television, or radio station; or company advertising department. NOTE: Students who have received credit for JOUR 4130, 4430 or 4630 may not receive credit for JOUR 4330. PREREQUISITE: permission of department chair. (S/U only). 4420. Public Relations Case Problems. (3). (4423). Case studies and typical public relations problems. Planning and preparation of communications materials for various media; application of public relations techniques. PREREQUISITES: JOUR 3421, 3422.4430. Public Relations Internship. (3). Work experience as intern with public relations department or organization or on team project assigned by instructor. Experience includes analysis of public relations plan and evaluation of results. NOTE: Students who have received credit for JOUR 4130, 4330 or 4630 may not receive credit for JOUR 4430. PREREQUISITES: JOUR 4420 and permission of department chair. (S/U only). 4440-6440. Public Relations Campaigns. (3). Application of theory, research data, and problem-solving techniques in the development of comprehensive public relations strategies. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 4420. [I]. 4629. Electronic Reporting. (3). Gathering and writing of news for all electronic media (radio-TV-cable). Emphasis on fundamentals of reporting and audio-video electronic newsgathering. PREREQUISITES: JOUR 3625; COMM 3821, 3801 OR COMM 3821, 3823, and 3824. 4630. Broadcast News Internship. (3). Work in practical assignments at local broadcast media under supervision of qualified practitioners. NOTE: Students who have received credit for JOUR 4130, 4330 or 4430 may not receive credit for JOUR 4630. PREREQUISITE: permission of department chair. (S/U only). 4639. Television Newsroom Production. (3). Producing, writing, editing and using electronic equipment to assemble a television newscast. Emphasis on performing the various tasks in a working newsroom. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3625, COMM 3801 or permission of instructor. 4649. Television News Practicum. (3). Applied skills in producing, writing, reporting, voicing daily news and information programming for a campus television newscast. One lecture, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: JOUR 3625, 3649 or permission of instructor. (S/U). 4655-6655. Seminar In Electronic Media. (3). An examination of issues and problems confronting electronic media, analysis of the various professional, societal and economic forces that affect broadcast journalism. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]4700. Mass Communication Law. (3). Origin and development of legal principles affecting freedom of expression and provisions of laws of libel, slander, copyright, and other statutes limiting communication in fields of publishing and broadcasting. 4702-6702. Current Issues In Journalism. (3). Advanced study of recent, critical problems faced by mass media and complexities that cause them. [I]. 4708-6708. Journalism Professional Ethics. (3). Classical approaches to ethics presented with their application to the day-to- day considerations a journalist must face in working with employers, local publics and the larger society which depends on a free and responsible press. 4712-6712. International Mass Media. (3). Exploration of international communication, flow of news and propaganda; role in national development and international affairs; growth and impact of global journalism, television, advertising and public relations; comparison of media systems. 4800-09-6800-09. Special Topics in Journalism. (3). Intensive study of a single critical issue or current topic. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. 4830. Directed Individual Study. (1-3). Independent study and research, or practicum, or project under supervision. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4900. Desktop Presentation. (3). Using computers to learn processes/software/production design concepts involved in multi- media primarily designed for computer-to-computer communication. Involves digital editing of still images, off-line video editing, animation and production techniques for assembling all into a single CD or video to convey advertising, public relations, or news editorial concepts. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3900 or permission of instructor. MUSICPROFESSOR B. GLENN CHANDLER, Ph.D., Chair Room 123B, Music Building Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Sacred Music (MUSA) Applied Music (MUAP) Music Education (MUSE) Commercial Music (CMUS) APPLICATION AND AUDITION PROCEDURES: Special application and audition procedures are required. See the description of the music programs in Colleges and Degree Programs. PIANO PROFICIENCY: All undergraduate music majors must take a piano placement evaluation before enrolling in applied music courses. This evaluation will place students in the appropriate piano class (MUSE 1105, 1106, 2107, 2108) to develop skills necessary to pass the Piano Proficiency Examination. All students in the Bachelor of Music (in Music) degree program must pass the Piano Proficiency Examination before the beginning of the senior year. This may be done in either of two ways: (1) by completing MUSE 2108, or (2) by passing, without credit, the Piano Proficiency Examination given once each semester. Piano proficiency requirements vary according to the area of concentration. A verification will be mailed to the student and appropriate officials upon completion of the examination. After successful completion of this examination, music students whose major instrument is not piano may audition for major group or private piano instruction. COMMERCIAL MUSIC PIANO PROFICIENCY: In lieu of the above piano proficiency, all Bachelor of Music commercial music majors, with the exception of keyboard students and students with a concentration in Music Business or Recording Technology must pass the commercial music piano proficiency examination before their final semester in the program. PATTERNS OF COURSE OFFERINGS: Patterns of course offerings are indicated in some course descriptions. (F) indicates the course is offered during the Fall Semester; (SP) indicates Spring. Courses with no indications of offering are offered either every semester or as needed. There is no guarantee that courses will always be offered as indicated. Always check the Schedule of Classes for availability. MUSIC THEORY AND COMPOSITION (MUTC) Placement in the Music Theory sequence for undergraduates will be determined through examination. NOTE: Courses in Composition and Electronic Music may be repeated for credit but not for the purpose of improving the grade originally earned. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]1001. Basic Music Theory. (2). For students who plan to major in music but do not meet minimum standards for MUTC 1008. Not allowable as credit toward the satisfaction of requirements for the major or minor. Two laboratory hours per week. 1008. Music Theory I. (3). Basic notation, scales, intervals, triads, key signatures; analysis and exploration of technical material and written exercises in historical areas of plain chant through late 16th century. COREQUISITE: MUTC 1010. PREREQUISITE: Theory placement exam. 1009. Music Theory II. (3). Four part structures, all seventh chords, chorale harmonization figured bass realization; analysis and written exercises from historical area of early 17th century through J. S. Bach. COREQUISITE: MUTC 1011. PREREQUISITES: MUTC 1008, 1010. 1010. Aural Theory I. (1). Beginning ear training; scales, intervals, triads, simple melodic lines and simple two part examples, sightsinging of combination of tonal and modal materials. COREQUISITE: MUTC 1008. PREREQUISITE: Theory placement exam. (S/U only). 1011. Aural Theory II. (1). Ear training involving triads in sequence, two part examples, modulatory melodies; sightsinging of 17th and 18th century melodic examples. COREQUISITE: MUTC 1009. PREREQUISITES: MUTC 1010, 1008. (S/U only). 2008. Music Theory III. (3). Continuation of four part structure, part writing and figured bass; expanded harmonic materials from ninth chords through chordal mutation; formal and chordal analysis from Bach through mid-19th century. COREQUISITE: MUTC 2010. PREREQUISITES: MUTC 1009, 1011. 2010. Aural Theory III. (1). Ear training involving expanded harmonic materials, modulatory melodies, two part examples with modulation; sightsinging of 18th and 19th century melodic examples. COREQUISITE: MUTC 2008. PREREQUISITES: MUTC 1011, 1009. (S/U only). 2501. Composition. (2). Class instruction in free composition; emphasis on smaller forms. May be repeated for additional credit. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 1008. NOTE: Composition taught as applied music. Students receive the equivalent of one half-hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $30.00 per semester. 2502. Composition. (2). Works for piano, voice, chorus, and small ensembles; study of style and analysis of works from music literature. May be repeated for additional credit. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2501 or permission of instructor. NOTE: Composition is taught as applied music. Students receive equivalent of one hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $60 per semester. 2511. Introductory Electronic Music. (2). Emphasis on basic techniques of electronic music composition through work in tape manipulation, synthesizer operation, musique concrete; history and aesthetics of electronic music. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2008 or permission of instructor. FEE $30. 3008. Music Theory IV. (3). Continuation of late 19th century harmonic structures; introduction of popular music and its notational symbols; introduction and use of 20th century techniques analysis and written examples from 20th century. COREQUISITE: MUTC 3009. PREREQUISITES: MUTC 2008, 2010. 3009. Aural Theory IV. (1). Ear training involving expanded 19th century harmonic considerations, 20th century chromaticism and pandiatonicism, two part examples from both 19th and 20th centuries; sightsinging emphasizing melodies of 20th century. COREQUISITE: MUTC 3008. PREREQUISITES: MUTC 2010, 2008. (S/U only). 3010. Aural Theory V. (1). Aural exploration of basic forms, cadences and styles of music; detailed aural analysis of modulatory elements within a piece. (F). PREREQUISITES: MUTC 3008, 3009. (S/U only). 3101. Orchestration. (2). Basic study of instruments of orchestra and band, terminology and techniques pertaining to that study; practical application by scoring for small and large instrumental combinations (F). PREREQUISITES: MUTC 3008, 3009, or permission of instructor. 3102. Advanced Musical Analysis. (3). Theoretical analysis of large-scale compositions from Renaissance to present. (SP). PREREQUISITES: MUTC 3008, 3009. [W]. 4101. Compositional Techniques of the Twentieth Century. (3). Writing course employing harmonic and contrapuntal techniques and devices from Debussy to present. (SP-even years). 4202-6202. Seminar: Music Theory and Analysis. (3). Advanced course in theory, counterpoint, and analysis of literature. Contrapuntal and harmonic techniques. Research; theoretical problems from pedagogical point of view; writing in strict and free styles. Recommended as review course for graduate students. (F). PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4203. Critical Studies in Music. (3). Directed research in music theory, history and literature; study in depth related to major concentration area; required of theory majors; term paper. 4204. Individual Studies in Music Theory and Composition. (1-3). (4201-001). Directed individual study in selected areas of The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]music theory and composition chosen in consultation with instructor. May be repeated for credit but not for the purpose of changing a grade. 4205. Sixteenth Century Counterpoint. (2). (4201-002). Study of contrapuntal techniques of the sixteenth century. (SP-odd years).4206. Eighteenth Century Counterpoint. (2). (4201-003). Study of contrapuntal techniques of the eighteenth century. (F-even years).4207. Twentieth Century Counterpoint. (2). (4201-004). Study of contrapuntal techniques of the twentieth century. (F-odd years).4208. Analytical Techniques. (3). (4201-006). Techniques of analysis of styles and structure of music from all periods of history of music. (SP-odd years). 4209. Advanced Orchestration. (3). (4201-007). Continuation of MUTC 3101. Orchestration of works from nineteenth and twentieth centuries for full orchestra; study of representative orchestral scores from romantic and contemporary periods. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 3101. 4260-69-6260-69. Special Topics in Theory and Composition. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes.4501-6501. Composition. (2 or 4). Composition in varied forms for large and small ensembles and solo instruments; analysis of contemporary works and practical application of techniques. May be repeated for additional credit. PREREQUISITE: recommendation of upper division examining committee. NOTE: Composition taught as applied music. Students receive equivalent of one hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $60.00 per semester. 4502. Composition for Non-Composition Majors. (3). Class instruction in free composition for students not majoring in composition. Practical experience in idea generation, form, development, and instrumentation. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 3008. NOTE: Composition taught as applied music. Students receive equivalent of one half-hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $30 per semester. 4511. Intermediate Electronic Music. (2). Emphasis on basic techniques through work in tape manipulation, study of history and aesthetics of electronic music. The two hours credit earned from this course may be used as composition credit toward composition concentration. PREREQUISITE: for music majors only or with permission of instructor. FEE: $60.00. 4512. Advanced Electronic Music. (2). Continuation of MUTC 4511. Emphasis on individual compositional projects. May be repeated for credit, but only two hours may be used as composition credit in composition concentration. FEE: $60. 4599. Senior Composition Recital. (3). Integration course for which students prepare and present a concert of their music and an accompanying descriptive paper. Taught as applied music, individual instruction. PREREQUISITES: a minimum of 4 hours in MUTC 4501; permission of the instructor. [I]. MUSIC HISTORY, LITERATURE, AND APPRECIATION (MUHL) 1101. Music Appreciation. (3). Music of various Western and non-Western cultures and historical periods, including the creative process, the formal elements of music and musical styles, genres, and media. Attendance at some concerts required. NOTE: May not be used to satisfy requirements for degrees in Music. [G]. 3301. History of Music to 1700. (3). Development of significant musical styles; attention to individual contribution of major composers. (F). PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2008 or permission of instructor. 3302. History of Music Since 1700. (3). Continuation of MUHL 3301. (SP). PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2008 or permission of instructor. [W]. 4001-6001. Piano Repertory. (3). Survey of stringed keyboard repertory from Bach and his contemporaries to the present. Representative works analyzed regarding historical, stylistic, formal and aesthetic features. (F). PREREQUISITE: junior standing in music or permission of instructor. 4002-6002. Song Repertory I. (3). Survey of solo literature from the Italian, British Isles, and German Schools of song. 4003-6003. Song Repertory II. (3). Survey of solo literature from the French, Russian and Slavic, Scandinavian, and American Schools of song. 4005-6005. History and Literature of the Organ. (3). Literature for the organ and its effect on and interaction with organ design. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]4006-6006. Classical Guitar Literature I. (3). Study of the basic repertoire from the medieval period through the pre-classical period.4007-6007. Classical Guitar Literature II. (3). Study of the basic repertoire from the classical period to the present. 4259. Studies in Bibliography. (3). Bibliographic techniques in music history; study and cataloguing of standard reference materials; research practices and ethics. Preparation of the Senior Project prospectus. 4260-69-6260-69. Special Topics in Music History. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4401. Medieval Music. (3). (4408-001). Advanced study of music in its historical context from Gregorian Chant through 1400. 4402. Renaissance Music. (3). (4408-002). Advanced study of music in its historical context from 1400 through 1600. 4403. Baroque Music. (3). (4408-003). Advanced study of music in its historical context from 1600 through 1750. 4404. Classical Music. (3). (4408-004). Advanced study of music in its historical context from 1725 through 1810. 4405. Nineteenth Century Music. (3). (4408-005). Advanced study of music in its historical context from 1790 through 1900. 4406. Twentieth Century Music. (3). (4408-006). Advanced study of music in its historical context from 1900 to the present. 4407-6407. The Opera and Music Drama. (3). Survey of opera before Richard Wagner; Wagner's music dramas and operas of his contemporaries; dramatic and musical significance of each phase of development of two forms. PREREQUISITE: MUHL 3301, 3302; or permission of instructor. 4500-6500. String Repertory. (3). Histories, texts, methods, periodicals, orchestral studies, and solo and ensemble literature of the individual string instruments. 4601. Comparative Arts. (3). Cultural activities in their interrelation with each other and with corresponding historic and economic events. Open without prerequisite to non-music majors of junior and senior standing. 4800-6800. World Musical Styles. (3). Musical styles and role of music performance in preliterate and folk societies throughout world. (SP). 4801-6801. American Folk and Popular Music. (3). Folk and popular elements in American music. Role of mass media, especially phonograph record, in utilizing and changing folk music. Historical development and interrelationships of various musical styles ranging from 19th century minstrelsy to roots of rock and roll. Emphasis on southern Anglo-American and Afro-American folk and popular musical styles. (F). 4803. Individual Studies in Music History. (1-3). Directed individual study in selected areas of music history chosen in consultation with instructor. May be repeated for credit with permission of department chair. May not exceed 6 hours credit. 4804-6804. Blues. (3). (4802-002). Stylistic development of blues music from its beginnings; its relationships to African-American and American culture and history. (F). 4805-6805. History of Rock and Roll. (3). (4802-006). Stylistic origins and development of rock and roll music from its beginnings to the present. 4806-6806. History of Jazz. (3). (4802-007). Stylistic origins and development of jazz; interaction of jazz and Western classical music styles. 4807-6807. Memphis Music. (3). (4802-009). Most distinctive forms of folk and popular music in Memphis in the twentieth century; relationships to history, culture, and social patterns of the city and mid-south region; folk music background; blues, jazz, country music, gospel music, and rock and roll emphasized. (Sp) 4999. Senior Project in Music History. (3). Integration course in which knowledge and skills developed in music theory, performance practice studies, and music history are utilized systematically in the preparation of a public presentation of musical and musicological interest and of accompanying decriptive paper. Taught as applied music, individual instruction. PREREQUISITE: a minimum of 6 hours in advanced music history courses; permission of the instructor. [I]. SACRED MUSIC (MUSA) 4104-6104. Sacred Music in History and Practice I. (3). Survey of Jewish and Christian sacred music, exploring origins of styles, traditions, and current practices. (F - alternate years). PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2008. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]4105-6105. Sacred Music in History and Practice II. (3). (SP - alternate years). PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2008. 4106-6106. Children's Choirs in the Church. (3). Organization and development of a children's choir program in the church; rehearsal techniques; literature; vocal development; recruiting; contemporary approaches. (F). 4107-6107. Service Playing for Organists. (3). Playing of hymns and accompaniments, adaptation of piano and orchestra accompaniments, basic improvisation. (SP - alternate years). PREREQUISITE: Upper division standing in organ or permission of instructor.4260-69-6260-69. Special Topics in Sacred Music. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4801-6801. Individual Studies in Sacred Music. (1-3). Directed individual study in selected areas of music chosen in consultation with instructor. May be repeated for credit with permission of department chair. May not exceed 6 hours credit. APPLIED MUSIC (MUAP) Applied music courses are divided into two broad categories: (1) small group or individual lessons in vocal or instrumental performance and (2) musical ensembles. Small group lessons in vocal or instrumental performance are provided through MAJOR GROUP INSTRUCTION (see the explanation below under MAJOR GROUP INSTRUCTION). Individual lessons in vocal or instrumental performance are offered at LOWER DIVISION and UPPER DIVISION levels (see the explanation below under LOWER DIVISION COURSES and UPPER DIVISION COURSES). Major group or individual lessons in vocal or instrumental performance are given by university faculty who are members of the relevant Applied Music Division. All students who wish to enroll in small group or individual lessons in vocal or instrumental performance must perform an audition for the members of the appropriate Applied Music Division or for a designate of the appropriate division. Because the number of students who can be accepted is limited, it is advisable that the student audition as early as possible to be assured a place with the requested teacher. Practice facilities are provided without charge, but there are additional fees for the individual lessons (see the explanation below under FEES), and a deposit is required for practice room keys. Examinations for courses in which the student is to receive credit for small group or individual lessons in vocal or instrumental performance are called Board Exams. For Board Exams, each student performs musical selections and/or technical exercises of a grade of difficulty appropriate to the level of instruction in which the student is enrolled. The board hearing the exam is made up of the members of the appropriate Applied Music Division (for further information, see the explanation below under EXAMINATIONS). Music majors at The University of Memphis are expected to participate in Music Department ensembles; each degree program has specific or general ensemble requirements (see above under the various degree requirements). Non-music majors enrolled at The University of Memphis as degree-seeking students may enroll and be accepted for applied instruction where staff time is available. If accepted for applied instruction, non-music majors must simultaneously enroll and participate in an ensemble sponsored by the Department of Music. Any student enrolled at The University of Memphis may audition for applied jazz lessons as space permits. Any student accepted for applied jazz lessons must concurrently participate in an appropriate jazz ensemble or combo. Jazz ensemble assignments are made following the jazz auditions during registration week at the beginning of the semester. All jazz and studio bass majors must simultaneously be enrolled in classical bass, MUAP 1541 until a level of proficiency equal to entrance into upper division is attained. All jazz and studio guitar majors must take six semester hours of classical guitar which is the maximum allowable for credit toward the degree. If a student can meet the requirements in less time, and wishes to discontinue classical study, the student may do so with permission of the instructor and consultation with the jazz and studio faculty. In the event a student cannot meet the requirements after six semester hours of study, it is the student's responsibility to pursue classical guitar as an elective or until such time as requirements are met to the satisfaction of the guitar and jazz and studio faculty. FEES: In addition to the regular student fees, all persons taking applied music will be assessed $35.00 per semester for the half- hour lessons. Students registering for one (1) semester hour credit will receive one half-hour lesson per week. All others will receive one hour lesson per week regardless of credit hours. The integration courses-Artist Recital, Senior Composition Recital, Senior Project in Music History, and Senior Performance Project-are taught as applied music, and a fee of $105.00 is assessed for registration in each course. APPLIED MUSIC COURSES Major Group Lower Division Upper Division Instrument Instruction (2) (1-4 each) (1-6 each) Trumpet 1110 1111 4111-6111 Horn 1120 1121 4121-6121 The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]Trombone 1130 1131 4131-6131 Tuba 1140 1141 4141-6141 Cornett 1150 1151 4151-6151 Sackbut 1160 1161 4161-6161 Piano 1310 1311 4311-6311 Harpsichord - 1321 4321-6321 Organ - 1331 4331-6331 Percussion 1410 1411 4411-6411 Violin 1510 1511 4511-6511 Baroque Violin - 1512 4512-6512 Viola 1520 1521 4521-6521 Cello 1530 1531 4531-6531 Bass 1540 1541 4541-6541 Guitar 1550 1551 4551-6551 Harp 1560 1561 4561-6561 Viola da Gamba 1570 1571 4571-6571 Voice 1610 1611 4611-6611 Flute 1710 1711 4711-6711 Oboe 1720 1721 4721-6721 Clarinet 1730 1731 4731-6731 Saxophone 1740 1741 4741-6741 Bassoon 1750 1751 4751-6751 Recorder 1760 1761 4761-6761 Jazz Trumpet - 1112 4112 Jazz Piano - 1312 4312 Jazz Percussion - 1412 4412 Jazz Bass - 1542 4542 Jazz Guitar - 1552 4552 Jazz Voice - 1612 4612 REGISTRATION: Students will register for lessons in the same manner and at the same time as they register for other courses; however, students may not be assigned to a course number until they have auditioned. Auditions are held in the Music Building during the pre-college counseling, advising and registration periods before each semester. Auditions may be scheduled in the Music Office, Room 123, Music Building. Any inquiries concerning credits or course numbers should be directed to the chair of the Department of Music. CREDITS AND GRADES: Students may register for one or two hours credit per semester and will be assigned to individual lessons, a master class, or a combination of the two, commensurate with their level of performance. Additional credit may be earned at the lower division and upper division level. Students earning more than two credits per semester will be assigned additional practice and will be expected to perform at a higher level than those students registered for fewer credits. Grades are awarded on the same basis and have the same significance as in other subjects. REPETITION OF COURSES: MUAP courses in individual lessons and major group instruction, small ensembles, and large ensembles may be repeated for credit but not for the purpose of improving the grade originally earned. EXAMINATIONS: For an examination in applied music, students will prepare and perform for members of the faculty of the Department of Music suitable musical selections and technical exercises of a grade of difficulty appropriate to their standing. Examinations are held in designated rooms on days set aside for this purpose near the end of each semester. Credit for the course will not be awarded to any student who fails to take the examination. 1000. Applied Music Workshop. (.5). This course is required of all music majors for eight semesters. (S/ U only). 3999. Junior Recital. (1). 4260-69-6260-69. Special Topics in Applied Music. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4799. Conducting Recital. (1). 4801-6801. Individual Studies in Applied Music. (1-3). Directed individual instruction in applied area not listed under MUAP. May be repeated, not to exceed 6 semester hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of department chair. 4998. Senior Performance Project. (3). Integration course in which knowledge and skills developed in music history, music theory, applied music, and music education courses are utilized systematically in the preparation and presentation of a public musical performance and of an accompanying descriptive paper; one of the compositions presented in the format of a lecture- demonstration. Taught as applied music, individual instruction. PREREQUISITE: minimum of 2 hours in upper division applied lessons; permission of the instructor. [I]. 4999. Artist Recital. (3). Integration course in which knowledge and skills developed in music history, music theory, and applied music courses are utilized systematically in the preparation and presentation of a public musical performance and of an accompanying descriptive paper. Taught as applied music, individual instruction. PREREQUISITE: a minimum of 4 hours upper division lessons; permission of the instructor. [I]. MAJOR GROUP INSTRUCTION: Any student of the university may audition for lessons at the major group level except in organ; organ students must have the ability to play the piano before beginning organ instruction. A student may not receive more than four hours credit in any one area of major group instruction. The fee for major group instruction will be the same as for one half-hour lesson per week: $35.00 per semester. LOWER DIVISION COURSES: Applied music courses in the lower division include the study normally carried out during the The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]freshman and sophomore years. Piano or instrumental students at this level should have had several years of intensive study prior to university entrance so that they have a secure, reliable, and well-grounded technique on the instrument. Organ students may begin at this level provided that they play the piano well and have reasonable ability in sight-reading. Those who do not meet this requirement will register for MUAP 1310. To be admitted to lower division study a student must first pass a qualifying examination. Students who fall short of the requirements for admission to the lower-division courses will be advised to register for major group instruction until deficiencies are eliminated. Course numbers will be repeated for each semester of study. UPPER DIVISION COURSES: Promotion to the upper division does not follow automatically after the completion of four semesters of courses in the lower division but is made only on the recommendation of the upper division examining committee; such a recommendation will be made only if the student's proficiency as a performer bears promise of future artistic and professional qualities as a soloist. It is at this level that the student normally begins preparation for a recital. JUNIOR RECITAL, ARTIST RECITAL, and SENIOR PERFORMANCE PROJECT: The Junior Recital is required for the Performance Concentration under the Bachelor of Music in Music degree. The Artist Recital is required for the Performance Concentration and the Sacred Music Concentration. The Senior Performance Project is required under the School of Music Concentration. The Artist Recital and the Senior Performance Project are integration courses for which the student must prepare both a public recital and a paper. To register for the Junior Recital and the Senior Performance Project, students must have successfully completed at least two years of credit in upper division lessons in their applied area. To register for the Artist Recital, students must have successfully completed at least four hours of credit in upper division lessons in their applied area. The Junior Recital must be approved by the appropriate applied music faculty through a hearing. Both the musical and the written portions of the Artist Recital and the Senior Performance Project must be approved by the appointed faculty committee through a reading and a hearing. Upon approval, the student may schedule a date for the public performance and make arrangements for the printing of the program. The public performance must be presented no later than two weeks after the date of the hearing. SMALL, CHAMBER, AND SPECIALIZED ENSEMBLES: Advanced students are encouraged (and for certain degree plans are required) to participate in the following groups. Selection for membership is based on audition; courses may be repeated with the approval of the student's advisor. Three one-hour meetings per week. 3101. Brass Ensemble. (1). Practical applications of brass performance techniques for a small chamber ensemble, one performer to a part; survey of brass chamber music. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 3104. Collegium Musicum. (1). Use of early musical instruments and voice in performance of early music; primary sources used in preparation of performances. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 3301. Chamber Music for Pianists. (1). Applied work in piano ensembles, chamber music, and accompanying for woodwinds, brasses, strings, and vocalists. 3401. Percussion Ensemble. (1). Study and performance of selected traditional, contemporary, avant garde and pops percussion literature. Open to students in percussion concentration and others through audition. 3402. Contemporary Chamber Players. (1). Ensemble of mixed and variable instrumentation. Performance of repertoire written since 1900 and little known works of other periods. Primary goal of ensemble: to provide experiences in solving unique performance problems of contemporary music. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 3403. Orff Ensemble. (1). Study and performance of literature written for Orff instruments, including barred percussion, unpitched percussion, and recorder. 3501. String Ensemble. (1). Study and performance of string chamber music repertory. Coaching sessions weekly with a member of music faculty. Open to music majors and non-majors through audition. 3601. Camerata Singers. (1). Small vocal ensemble of varying sizes and resources specializing in performance of music from Medieval through Baroque periods. Open to music majors and non-music majors through audition. 3602. Opera Workshop. (1-6). 3603. Opera Soloists. (1). Preparation and performance of role in major production of University Opera Theater. Audition required.3604. Opera Production Laboratory. (1-6). 3701. Woodwind Ensemble. (1). Study and performance of original and transcribed works for varied combinations of woodwind instruments. Audition required. LARGE MUSICAL ORGANIZATIONS A minimum of eight semesters of large ensemble is required of music majors. (Exceptions to this policy are pianists concentrating in The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]Performance and guitarists who are required to have a minimum of 6 semesters of large ensemble; Commercial Music majors in Performance who are required to have 8 semesters of the appropriate level jazz ensemble; and Commercial Music majors in Composition/Arranging who are required to have 4 semesters of the appropriate level jazz ensemble. Commercial Music majors concentrating in Music Business or Recording Technology are exempt from this requirement.) Generally, wind and percussion performers are to participate in an instrumental ensemble; string performers are to participate in orchestra; and vocal, keyboard, and guitar performers are to participate in a choral organization unless assigned to a large instrumental ensemble. Transfer students lacking sufficient large ensemble credits may partially fulfill their large ensemble requirement by simultaneously enrolling in a small ensemble with a maximum of 2 credit hours of small ensemble applicable to the total large ensemble requirement. Ensemble assignments are based on audition and may be repeated. Any exception to this general ensemble assignment policy may be made after a review of petitions by the department chair, the appropriate ensemble director, and the applied studio teacher. 2001. University Concert Band. (1). (2001001). Performance of traditional and contemporary wind compositions. Participants chosen from this ensemble for basketball pep-bands. Open to music majors and non-music majors. 2002. Marching Band. (2). Selected ensemble that performs at all home football games and occasional out-of-town games in each season. Rehearsal approximately ten hours weekly. Open to music majors and non-music majors. [G]. 2003. Varsity Band. (1). (2001002). Concert performance of traditional and contemporary wind compositions. Participants are chosen from this ensemble for basketball pep-bands and usually have participated in Fall marching band. Open to music majors and non-music majors. 2004. University Gospel Choir. (1). Ensemble open to all students. Music includes contemporary gospel, spirituals, and gospel hymns. Serves as outlet for students interested in developing musical and personal capacities. Open to music majors as elective. Two class meetings per week. 3004. University Wind Ensemble. (1). Select ensemble of instrumentalists. Study and performance of outstanding repertory for wind ensembles. Open to music majors and non-music majors through audition. 3005. University Orchestra. (1). Study and performance of major orchestral literature. Additional opportunities for opera, chamber-orchestral and chamber ensemble performance. Audition required. 3006. University Singers. (1). Study and performance of choral works from broad spectrum of choral literature; sacred, secular, accompanied and a cappella. Open to music majors and non-music majors through audition. 3007. Opera Chorus. (1). Choral ensemble for opera productions with exploration of related stage techniques. Extra rehearsals at discretion of conductor. Audition required. 3008. Oratorio Chorus. (1). Study and performance of major works primarily oratorio in nature. Open to music majors, non- music majors and the off-campus community. Audition required. JAZZ AND STUDIO ENSEMBLES 3012. University Instrumental Jazz Ensemble.(1). (3010-001). Study and performance of varied jazz styles, including repertory from standard big band literature and studio ensembles. Open to music majors and non-majors through audition. This course will meet large ensemble requirements for Commercial Music majors only. 3013. University Vocal Jazz Ensemble. (1). (3010-002). Study and performance of varied jazz styles, including repertory from standard big band literature and studio ensembles. Open to music majors and non-majors through audition. This course will meet large ensemble requirements for Commercial Music majors only. 3014. Recording Studio Instrumental Ensemble. (1). (3011-001). Ensemble performs and records works written by students in the Commercial Music program. This couse will meet large ensemble requirements for Commercial Music majors only. 3015. Recording Studio Vocal Ensemble. (1). (3011-002). Ensemble performs and records works written by students in the Commercial Music program. This couse will meet large ensemble requirements for Commercial Music majors only. 3103. Jazz Combo. (1). Practical application of basic jazz improvisatory skills; combo experiences in all jazz styles; traditional, bop, contemporary. Audition required. MUSIC EDUCATION (MUSE) FIELDS OF ENDORSEMENT FOR TEACHING: For students in the School Music Concentration of the Bachelor of Music in Music degree, endorsement may be obtained in Instrumental Music and in Vocal Music. Normally, a student can expect to be recommended in only one of these areas. Vocal Music applicants should be able to play piano accompaniments of moderate difficulty, should possess an adequate solo voice for school music purposes, and should schedule a variety of large choral ensembles. Instrumental Music applicants should study one instrument of major emphasis and participate in large instrumental The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]ensembles. Students in either area may satisfactorily meet piano and voice requirements with completion of MUSE 2108 and MUSE 1113 and their prerequisites. A graduation recital is required in both areas. 1100. Class Piano for Non-Music Majors. (2). Beginning instruction in piano for non-music majors. Development of basic reading and performance skills. 1101. Class Instruction in Brass Instruments. (1). Basic performance skills and teaching techniques on trumpet, trombone, French horn, baritone horn and tuba for those who intend to teach instrumental music in schools. (SP). 1103. Class Instruction in Percussion Methods. (1). Basic performance skills and teaching techniques on snare drum, timpani, and keyboard percussion instruments for those who intend to teach instrumental music in schools. (F). 1104. Class Instruction in Woodwind Instruments. (1). Basic performance skills and teaching techniques on clarinet, flute, saxophone, oboe, and bassoon for those who intend to teach instrumental music in schools. (SP). 1105. Class Instruction in Piano. (2). Basic technique, with emphasis on sight-reading. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 1001 or permission of instructor. 1106. Class Instruction in Piano. (2). Playing of songs used in school music teaching; community songs, and hymns. PREREQUISITES: MUSE 1105; MUTC 1008, 1010. 1111. Class Instruction in Guitar. (1). Functional accompanying skills as commonly used in folk and popular music. Basic and intermediate performance technique appropriate to the student's ability. May be repeated once for additional credit. 1112. Class Instruction in Voice. (1). Fundamentals of vocal production useful for all music teachers. 1113. Class Instruction in Voice. (1). Continuation of 1112 with more emphasis on solo singing of easy songs. 1116. Class Instruction in Stringed Instruments. (1). Basic performance skills on violin, viola, cello, or double bass. Emphasis on principles of sound production, intonation, and bow strokes. Various published methods examined and compared. Orchestral and chamber music literature for string players. (F). 1117. Class Recorder. (1). Basic performance and teaching skills on soprano and alto recorders. Analysis of teaching materials and repertory for elementary and secondary education. (F). May be repeated once for additional credit. 1118. Class Instruction in Guitar for Non-music Majors. (2). Beginning instruction in classical guitar for non-music majors. Development of basic reading and performance skills. 2107. Class Instruction in Piano. (2). Simpler Bach chorales, more difficult songs, and accompaniments, appropriate to the student's major field; memorization optional. PREREQUISITES: MUSE 1106; MUTC 1009, 1011. 2108. Independent Studies in Piano Proficiency. (2). Piano repertoire and technique, accompaniments, harmonization, transposition, and sight reading to satisfy the core requirements of the piano proficiency exam. Requirements vary according to the student's concentration area and the degree emphasis. PREREQUISITES: MUSE 2107; MUTC 1009, 1011. 3001. Music for Children. (3). Goals, materials, and methods of music appropriate for the elementary school child; music reading and playing of classroom instruments; creative movement; activities for music appreciation. 3700. Basic Conducting. (2). Development of conducting skills. Basic baton principles, rhythmic analysis, expressive techniques, phrasing, and multimetered problems. Class meetings require performing as instrumentalist or vocalist as well as conductor. Three class hours per week. (F). PREREQUISITE: Completion of MUTC 3008. 3702. Score Reading. (3). Realization of open score at the keyboard; vocal scores, small orchestra and large orchestra scores; clefs, transpositions, etc.; employing literature from various periods of music history. 4001-6001. Orff-Schulwerk for Classroom Teachers. (3). Broad, practical introduction to use of Orff-Schulwerk approach to elementary music teaching. Development of performance leadership skills emphasized. Not open to music majors. 4201-6201. Individual Studies in the Teaching of Music. (1-3). Individual study of problems and opportunities faced by person who teaches music in schools; for classroom teachers, music teachers, supervisors, principals, and administrators. May be repeated, but not for the purpose of changing a previous grade, for maximum of 6 semester hours credit. 4202. Materials and Methods of Music, Grades K-6. (3). Aims and principles of music and of traditional and contemporary methods of teaching in elementary schools. Creative approach to rhythm, listening, instrumental and singing activities. Contemporary systems of music teaching for elementary grades surveyed. (Odd years). 4203. Materials and Methods of Classroom Music. (3). (Same as SCED 3322). Philosophy, methods, and materials for The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]teaching non-performance music classes in secondary school, grades 7-12. Includes demonstration, observations, and simulation of classroom teaching at this level. (SP). 4204. Instrumental Music in Elementary and Secondary Education. (2). Designed to prepare the school instrumental teacher to teach basic music concepts to beginners in mixed instrumental group settings. Instruction methodologies and materials, simple instructional arranging, instrument assignment, and instrument maintenance stressed. Lab experience. (F). PREREQUISITE: junior standing in music. 4205-6205. Marching Band Techniques. (2). Organizing and conducting the marching band, gridiron charting and marching procedures with a study of precision drill, formations and pageantry. (SP). PREREQUISITE: permission of the instructor. 4206-6206. Music for Exceptional Children. (3). Types of exceptional children and implications for providing realistic musical activities in the classroom. Emphasis on use of music as a tool in reaching non-musical goals such as language development, social adjustments, motor coordination, aural and visual perception (team taught with Special Education). (SP). 4207. Choral Methods and Materials. (2). Selected materials and methods of practical concern to the vocal-choral music specialist. Consideration of music series, scheduling techniques, voice class development, choral publishers, units of study. (F). PREREQUISITE: junior standing in music. 4208-6208. Band Literature. (3). History and evolution of wind instruments and wind instrument playing and the history and development of the wind band and its literature, with general background material on the specific composers involved. (SP). 4209. Piano Tuning and Repair. (2). Concentrated study of basic techniques involved in piano tuning and adjustment. Some basic tools required. 4211. Vocal Diction I. (2). Phonetic study of Latin, English and German languages in detail. Introduction and basic rules of Italian pronunciation. Study includes International Phonetic Alphabet transcription of songs and arias and class performance. (Alternate years). 4212. Vocal Diction II. (2). Phonetic study of Italian, French, and Spanish in detail, including IPA transcription of songs and arias and class performance. Other languages (Russian, Hebrew, etc.) may be covered as time permits. (Alternate years). 4260-69-6260-69. Special Topics in Music Education. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4501-6501. Piano Pedagogy I. (3). Training teachers for beginning through intermediate level piano instruction. Establishing strong artistic, musical and technical foundations. (F). PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4503-6503. Piano Pedagogy II. (3). Training teachers for advanced piano instruction. Extensive readings from renowned artist- teachers and performers. Development of ideation and memorization skills. Observations and supervised practice teaching. (SP). PREREQUISITE: MUSE 4501 or permission of instructor. 4505-6505. Principles of Accompanying. (3). Performance class involving practical study of instrumental and vocal standard repertory and the problems of ensemble playing. Facility in sight-reading and ability to assimilate music rapidly. Score-reading, transposition, and figured bass realization introduced as skills necessary to well rounded musicianship. (SP). PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4506-6506. Introduction to Suzuki Talent Education for Strings. (3). Required of students who plan to serve as apprentice string teachers in U of M Suzuki Talent Education program. Basic instruction in Suzuki philosophy; participation with parents and children in Suzuki string classes. 4508-6508. Principles of Suzuki Piano. (3). Suzuki philosophy applied to development of the child's abilities and role of teacher and parent. Students will analyze technical and musical instruction of beginning piano student. (F). PREREQUISITE: upper division piano skills. 4509-6509. Suzuki Violin Literature and Techniques. (3). Literature and technique taught in Suzuki Violin School; fundamental technique, development of posture, tone and listening ability in beginning students; analysis of pedagogical material. Required of students who plan to serve as apprentice teachers in U of M Suzuki String Program. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 4506. 4510-6510. Advanced Suzuki String Pedagogy. (3). Literature and technique taught in Suzuki Violin School; emphasis on development of advanced student; laboratory experience in U of M Suzuki String Program. Required of students planning to be apprentice teachers in U of M Suzuki String Program. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 4509. 4511-6511. Class Piano Pedagogy. (3). Group instruction techniques in teaching of beginning, intermediate, and early advanced piano. Emphasizes observation and practical application. For the piano major and/or prospective piano teacher. (SP). PREREQUISITE: upper division level in keyboard or permission of instructor. 4512-6512. Jazz Pedagogy for Music Educators. (3). Design and implementation of a comprehensive jazz curriculum, either The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]at secondary or college level; teaching methodology in all disciplines of the jazz idiom. PREREQUISITES: advanced standing, permission of instructor. 4700. Instrumental Conducting. (2). Various problems encountered in preparation and conducting of instrumental scores; individual practice with opportunity for each student to conduct instrumental groups. Three class hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 3700. 4701. Choral Conducting. (2). Various problems encountered in preparing and conducting traditional and contemporary vocal scores; rehearsal techniques; individual practice with laboratory groups. Three class hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 3700. 4801-6801. Teaching Music Comprehensively. (3). Methods course to bring music theory, history, literature, performance, composition, and analysis to bear on teaching of music at any level-elementary, junior high, high school, college, and private studio. 4802-6802. Level I Orff-Schulwerk. (1-3). Basic Orff-Schulwerk techniques including body movement, soprano recorder, percussion, vocal performance, improvisation and arranging. PREREQUISITE: junior standing in music education or equivalent experience.4811-6811. Orff-Schulwerk for Music Specialists. (3). Experience in Orff-Schulwerk through singing, rhythmic training, movement, improvisation, and instruments. Open to music majors and specialists only. COMMERCIAL MUSIC (CMUS) 1116. Class Instruction in Piano: Jazz/Pop/ Commercial. (2). Basic harmonic patterns, chord symbol realization, voicing, basic rhythmic patterns. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 1105 or equivalency exam. 2101. Music Theory: Jazz/Pop/Commercial I. (3). Basic harmonic structures, chord symbol realization, melodic structures, notation, articulation, rhythmic patterns; analysis of written and recorded jazz, pop, and commercial music; transcription of recorded materials. Three lecture, one lab hours per week. (F). PREREQUISITES: MUTC 1009, CMUS 1116. 2102. Music Theory: Jazz/Pop/Commercial II. (3). Altered scales and modes, altered and extended chords, chromatic progressions, mediant relationships, poly-harmony and panchromaticism. Three lecture, one lab hours per week. (SP). PREREQUISITE: CMUS 2101. 2501. Composition/Arranging: Jazz/Commercial I. (2). Emphasis on small instrumental and vocal works, basic style and form. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2501 or permission of instructor. NOTE: Composition is taught as applied music. Students receive the equivalent of one half-hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $30.00 per semester. 2502. Composition/Arranging: Jazz/Commercial II. (2). Emphasis on stage and jazz band arranging techniques. Introduction to line writing. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: CMUS 2501 or permission of instructor. NOTE: Composition is taught as applied music. Students receive the equivalent of one half-hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $30.00 per semester. 3100. Promotion and Management of Artists. (3). Problems involved in management and promotion of recording artists. Attention to management, recording procedures, booking, and personal appearance contracts; concert promotions and personal appearances as they relate to development of artist. A portfolio will be completed. 3101. Record Promotion and Sales. (3). Current practices in promotion and sale of recordings. Emphasis on radio station music formats and other methods of exposing recordings to the public. Sales portion examines wholesale, one-stops, rack, and retail store sale of recordings. (F). 3103. Trends in Contemporary Music Styles and Production. (3). Various styles of current popular musical groups and artists and their influences from earlier eras; discussion of prominent "behind-the-scenes" personalities-songwriters, producers, and engineers; analysis of musical styles and devices for purposes of developing ability to recognize and create songs with commercial potential.3501. Composition/Arranging: Jazz/Commercial III. (2). Individual instruction for mixed ensembles and studio groups in various jazz and studio styles, standard and extended forms. May be repeated for additional credit. PREREQUISITE: CMUS 2502 or permission of instructor. NOTE: Composition is taught as applied music. Students receive the equivalent of one hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $60.00 per semester. 3503. Songwriting Fundamentals. (3). Process of developing an idea into a commercially viable song. Individual guidance provided. Songwriters and publishers from major companies invited to appear. PREREQUISITES: basic ability to read and write music; basic skill on a musical instrument; permission of instructor. 3800. Recording Studio Technology. (4). Detailed examination of basic theory, operational concepts and technologies upon The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]which modern studio equipment is based. Exploration of creative production techniques used to enhance musical composition and performance. Basic operating procedures. (F). PREREQUISITES: sophomore standing, completion of MATH 1312, TECH 1811, and permission of instructor. 3801. Studio Synthesizers. (2). Focus on needs of both music composer and practicing audio engineer, and on use of equipment commonly found in modern electronic music studios. Topics include sampling, synthesis, MIDI, patching, electronic editing, signal processing, and creative commercial production techniques. Projects involving computer-assisted composition and performance will be required. (SP). PREREQUISITES: CMUS 3800 or 3802 and permission of instructor. 3802. Audio Recording for Non-Technology Majors. (4). Promote basic understanding of equipment, techniques, musical production values and technology commonly used in modern audio production. Synthesizers, MIDI, home studios, and computer- assisted composition and performance systems also examined. (SP). PREREQUISITES: junior standing and permission of instructor. Will not satisfy degree requirements for recording technology majors. 3825. Materials and Techniques of Improvisation I. (3). Development of improvisation skills on solo instruments or voice; basic chord patterns, scales, arpeggios; performance with rhythm section. (F). PREREQUISITE: CMUS 2102 or permission of instructor.3826. Materials and Techniques of Improvisation II. (3). Analysis of melodic structures; motivic fragmentation and sequencing; extended harmonic structures, articulatory variation; performance in small combo settings. (F). PREREQUISITE: CMUS 3825 or permission of instructor. 3827. Materials and Techniques of Improvisation III. (3). Analysis and performance of music in standard styles, including bebop, Latin, third stream, soft rock, hard rock and commercial; performance with combos and large jazz ensembles. (F). PREREQUISITE: CMUS 3826 or permission of instructor. 3828. Aesthetics and Analysis of Jazz and Commercial Music Styles. (2). Fundamentals of form and style analysis; study of the artistic and commercial intentions and appropriateness of music from early popular styles to the present. (SP). PREREQUISITE: CMUS 2102 or permission of instructor. 4102-6102. Composer's Workshop: Jazz/Commercial. (3). (MUTC 4102). Composition/Arranging for various sizes of instrumental and vocal groups with emphasis on commercial writing; projects in record copies, horn and string tracks, background vocals, instrumental accompaniment for vocal solos, jingles, and radio station ID's. (SP-odd years). PREREQUISITES: CMUS 2102, 2502, or permission of instructor. 4103-6103. Jazz and Studio Ensemble Techniques. (3). (MUTC 4103). Jazz and studio performance styles and practices, emphasizing ensemble rehearsal and conducting techniques, articulation, phrasing, balance and blend, line dominance, and recording studio performance skills. (F). PREREQUISITE: CMUS 3828. 4201. Studies in Commercial Music. (1-3). Class or supervised individual study of special problems in Commercial Music. May be repeated if course content differs. 4260-69-6260-69. Special Topics in Commercial Music. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4501. Composition/Arranging: Jazz/Commercial IV. (3). Individual instruction with emphasis on advanced line writing, fusion and contemporary mainstream styles, writing for full studio orchestra. May be repeated for additional credit. PREREQUISITE: CMUS 3501 or permission of instructor. NOTE: Composition is taught as applied music. Students receive the equivalent of one hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $60.00 per semester. 4502-6502. Introduction to Film/Video Scoring. (3). Basic problems of writing music for film and video: commercial and industrial productions, shorts and full length features, selection of appropriate styles, creating a master music list, writing from a cue sheet; introduction to editing room equipment: conversion of film frames to video, use of SMPTE time code and synchronization equipment, MIDI sequencer scoring from a digital audio workstation; project assignments in film and video formats. (alternate years). PREREQUISITES: MUTC 2511, CMUS 3501, and either CMUS 3801 or MUTC 4511 or 4505, or by permission of instructor. 4504. Entertainment Complex Administration. (3). Fundamentals for managers of concert halls, theme parks, stadiums, nightclubs, and other venues. Topics include talent selection and contract negotiations, union considerations, publicity, security, cash management, budgets, selection of program material, presenting programs and performances. (SP). 4505. Digital Workstation Fundamentals. (2). Basic operation of Synclavier Digital Audio Workstation. Topics include operating system fundamentals, sound file creation, waveform editing, sampling, timbre creation and modification, sequencing. Examination of related products and equipment. Project required. PREREQUISITES: CMUS 3800 or 3802, one electronic music course, permission of instructor.4506. Directed Study in Digital Workstation Production. (1-3). Individual projects using Synclavier Digital Audio Workstation. May be repeated up to a maximum of 9 hours, but not for purpose of changing grade originally earned. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]PREREQUISITES: CMUS 4505 and permission of instructor. 4602-6602. Legal and Business Practices in the Recording Industry I. (3). Structure, organizations, and business relationships which compose commercial music industry. Topics include intellectual property rights, publishing, copyright, licensing, contracts, royalties, labor relations and related business practices. (F). PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4603-6603. Legal and Business Practices in the Recording Industry II. (3). Study of commercial music industry with lecturers and distinguished guests from the industry. Individual project required. (SP). PREREQUISITES: CMUS 4602 and permission of instructor. 4800. Basic Recording. (4). Audio engineering on modern multi-channel recording equipment using commercial production techniques. Emphasis on basic skills of microphone selection and placement, console operation, editing, mixing, and the engineer's artistic involvement in the project. (SP). PREREQUISITES: TECH 1811; CMUS 3800, and permission of instructor. 4801. Problems in Commercial Music. (1-3). Supervised independent study. Music. May be repeated to maximum of nine hours, but not for purpose of changing grade originally given. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4802. Advanced Recording. (4). Advanced production laboratory in producing contemporary commercial recordings. Emphasis on signal processing, automation, advanced recording, editing, and mixing techniques. Student will apply knowledge of the creative, business, and technical aspects of the recording process to studio production assignments. (F). PREREQUISITES: CMUS 4800 and permission of instructor. 4803. Advanced Studio Production and Technologies. (4). Comprehensive examination and application of emerging technologies in audio recording including audio/video production, digital recording, computer-assisted composition, and consumer equipment. PREREQUISITES: COMM 3824, CMUS 4802, and permission of instructor. 4804. Recording Studio Administration. (3). Financial and managerial aspects of operating a recording studio; scheduling, expansion, rate schedules and billing, hiring, securing venture capital, risk management, and providing related services. (SP). PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. 4805. Mastering, Manufacturing, and Distribution. (3). Examination of creative mastering techniques, audio mastering and manufacturing technologies, and business elements of music media distribution. Creative and aesthetic elements of mixing and mastering for duplication. Vinyl disc, cassette, CD, DAT, and emerging manufacturing and duplication technologies examined. Distribution topics include warehouse operations, packaging, shipping, storage, production schedules, market demand estimates, hiring, labor relations, and accounting. (F). PREREQUISITES: CMUS 4800 and permission of instructor. 4806. Fundamentals of Concert Sound Reinforcement. (3). Basic equipment and production techniques for providing live sound services. Methods for handling various sized groups in diverse locations. PREREQUISITES: CMUS 4800 and permission of instructor.4895. Senior Project: Jazz and Studio Performance. (3). Project must include live and recorded performances demonstrating the student's mastery of various styles of jazz, popular, and commercial music performance. PREREQUISITES: upper division standing in applied music, CMUS 3827 or permission of instructor. 4896. Senior Project: Jazz and Studio Composition/Arranging. (4). Project must include original compositions and original arrangements of existing compositions in a variety of styles. Project should include live performance, recorded album tracks, and film music. PREREQUISITES: CMUS 4501, 4502, CMUS 4505 or permission of instructor. 4898. Senior Project in Music Business or Recording/Engineering. (4). Comprehensive final project which demonstrates mastery of creative, technical, or business elements of commercial music industry. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and permission of instructor. [I]. 4899. Internship. (4). One semester of supervised field work experience in selected areas of the music industry. PREREQUISITE: placement interview and permission of instructor. THEATRE AND DANCE PROFESSOR JOHN J. MCFADDEN, JR., Chair Room 143, Theatre and Communication Arts Building TheatreDanceThe Department of Theatre and Dance offers a B.F.A. degree in Theatre with concentrations in Performance, Design and Technical Production, and Dance. The theatre programs are fully accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]NOTE: In addition to specific prerequisites, junior standing or permission of the department chair is a prerequisite for all 3000-- and 4000-- level courses in the Department of Theatre and Dance. THEATER (THEA) 1411. Basic Oral Interpretation. (3). Introduction to interpretation of literature in performance. To develop and heighten performer's responsiveness to the literary text. 1551. Introduction to Theatre. (3). Experiential, conceptual, historical, and cultural study of theatre as a unique form of artistic expression and mirror of human experiences and values throughout the world. Survey of constituent elements of a theatrical work and its major forms of expression. Attendance at The University of Memphis Theatre productions required. [G]. 1561. Introduction to Design. (3). Historical and conceptual survey of basic elements of production-scenery, costumes, lighting, sound-and their relation to theatrical production process. 2501. Stage Movement. (3). Introduction to movement as basic element of actor's craft. Focus on recognition, development, and understanding of natural physical actions and rhythms and their application to stage. [G]. 2511. Theatre Crafts. (3). Lecture/laboratory covering all phases of craft skills and equipment involved in technical theatre production. Required lab work. 2512. Introduction to Theatre Graphics. (3). Introduction to artistic graphic communication processes of technical theatre. Includes methodology and importance of beginning sketching; drafting; costume, set, and light design; as well as poster and program graphics. (Offered alternate years). 2515. Stage Make-up. (3). Lecture/laboratory class in which fundamentals of theatrical make-up are studied through a series of make-up projects including corrective make-up, fantasy, mask and beard makeups. (Offered alternate years). 2530. Acting for Non-Majors. (3). Introduction to craft of acting. Development of actor's individual potential through basic technique. Performance of short scenes in class. 2531. Basic Acting Techniques. (4). First essential of acting study: exploration of the actor. Class exercises to develop relaxation, concentration, imagination, and improvisation skills. 2532. Character Development. (4). Principles of role analysis through study of subtext, character motivation, and objectives. PREREQUISITE: THEA 2531 or permission of instructor. 3212. Voice Production for the Performer. (4). Techniques for freeing the vocal mechanism: breathing, phonation, movement to enhance the performer's craft. 3213. Voice Articulation for the Performer. (3). International Phonetic Alphabet. Standard American Dialect. Exercises in articulation and dialects as techniques for conveying dramatic intention and character. May be taken to improve grade in COMM 1211.3411. Language in Performance. (3). Language of literary text; creative exercises to develop and heighten performer's sensitivity to language context, structure, and rhythm in poetry. (Offered alternate years). [W]. 3412. Directing Experiments. (3). Theatrical image; creative exercises in imaginative use of space, time, and materials as they relate to stage direction and design. (Offered alternate years). 3505. Mime. (3). Techniques, composition and exploration of various styles of mime. PREREQUISITE: THEA 2501 or permission of instructor.3506. Movement Styles. (3). Techniques and choreography of the movement styles of various periods, with study in such areas as stage combat and masks. PREREQUISITE: THEA 3505 or permission of instructor. 3511. Stagecraft. (3). Lecture/laboratory includes theatre terminology, theatre forms, production organization, job descriptions, and safety. Scenery construction to include painting, flat scenery, three-dimensional scenery, and introduction to steel materials. Required lab work. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: THEA 2511. 3531. Scene Study. (4). Development of ensemble work within scenes. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours with permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: THEA 2532. 3532. Advanced Scene Study. (4). Continuation of 3531. Attention to material from modern classics. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 hours with permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: THEA 3531. 3551. Audition Preparation Performance Laboratory. (1). (3541-005). Weekly meeting to review/critique actors' audition The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]choices and progress. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 3561. Principles of Scene Design. (3). Application of principles to various theatrical conventions and configurations. (Offered alternate years). 3562. Principles of Costume Design. (3). Techniques of costume design with special attention to character interpretation and design visualization. Open to non-majors with permission of instructor. Offered alternate years. NOTE: THEA 3601, 3602, 3603, 3604, 3605, 3606, and 3607 include preparation for and participation in departmental theatre productions. Individualized work is in the form of supervised laboratory situations. Running crews for season productions selected from participating labs. Each course may be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours with permission of the instructor. 3601. Management and Publicity Production Laboratory. (1). (3542-001). 3602. Costumes Production Laboratory. (1). (3542-002). 3603. Lighting Production Laboratory. (1). (3542-003). 3604. Sound Production Laboratory. (1). (3542-004). 3605. Scenery Production Laboratory. (1). (3542-005). 3606. Props Production Laboratory. (1). (3542-006). 3607. Make-up Production Laboratory. (1). (3542-007). 4210-19-6210-19. Special Topics in Theatre. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. 4401-6401. Interpretation of Children's Literature. (3). Adaptation of literature for individual and group performances in children's theatre and in instruction for elementary and secondary schools. Includes styles of literature, principles of performance, and techniques for performance adaptation. May be repeated for up to 6 hours credit with permission of instructor. 4441-6441. Performance Repertory. (3). Group performance in dramatic and narrative theatre styles as well as dance and theatre movement. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: Prospective students must audition for and be cast in the Memphis Moving Line Company. 4455. Directing Narrative Theatre. (3). Directing techniques for staging literary texts not originally written for the theatre. Includes script adaptation of short stories, poetry, and non-fiction prose. Directing projects required. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: THEA 4521 or permission of instructor. 4457-6457. Interpretive Styles. (3). Exploration of performance style as it evolves from language, structure, and style of the literary text. Materials for performance will vary each semester and may alternate among the genres of prose fiction, poetry, and period drama. Repeatable for a maximum of 9 hours when content varies. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4501-6501. Advanced Movement Styles. (3). Advanced study in physical theatre styles. Varied semester topics: mask performance; fighting styles for period weapons; and physical theatre techniques for directors, teachers, and choreographers. Repeatable for a maximum of 6 hours when content varies. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4503-6503. Creative Dramatics. (3). Basic techniques and theories for use of dramatization in elementary and secondary education. Includes socio-drama, dramatization of school subjects and daily concerns, and improvisation and creation of dramatic plays.4515-6515. Scene Painting. (3). Lecture/laboratory covering techniques of painting scenery for stage. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: THEA 3561. 4516-6516. Technical Direction. (3). Lecture/ laboratory for theatre technicians includes production organization and safety, engineering, rigging, materials control and supply ordering. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: THEA 3511 . 4521. Principles of Stage Direction. (3). Exploration of conceptual, planning and implementation skills of stage director from script interpretation to rehearsal and performance. Attention to both traditional and non-traditional theatrical modes. Directing projects required. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: THEA 3412 or permission of instructor. 4523-6523. Children's Theatre. (3). Exploration of theories and styles of children's theatre, application of principles to problems in production and preparation of plays designed for children's audiences. May be repeated for up to 6 hours credit with permission of instructor. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]4531-6531. Acting Styles. (4). Development of acting styles as influenced by environments of historical periods. May be repeated for maximum of 8 hours. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: THEA 3532. 4532-6532. Advanced Acting Styles. (4). Continued work in acting styles. May be repeated for maximum of 8 hours. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: THEA 4531. 4541. Internship. (1-6). Supervised work in actual university, community, or professional theatre productions on internship basis. Credit varies with amount of time and responsibility involved. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: permission of Director of Theatre. 4551-6551. Theatre History-Classic. (3). Shaping forces and theatrical forms from primitive civilizations to the Renaissance in both Western and non-Western cultures, with emphasis on the former. (Offered altemate years). 4552-6552. Theatre History-Modern. (3). Continuation of 4551 to present. Offered alternate years. 4553. Directed Individual Studies in Theatre. (1-3). For advanced student who wishes to do concentrated study in specific area of theatre. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4554-6554. Costume History. (3). Survey of clothing fashions from primitive times to present; special emphasis on psychological implications of fashion change applicable to theatre. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. (Offered alternate years).4555-6555. Technical Production Studio: Theatre Technology. (3). Lecture/laboratory using traditional and contemporary materials and scenic techniques including rigging, metals and welding, wood working, and plastics. PREREQUISITE: THEA 3511 or permission of instructor. 4556-6556. Technical Production Studio: Lighting and Sound. (3). Study of technical principles that support areas of theatrical lighting and sound design. Includes instrumentation and equipment, electricity and electronics, control systems, operational and maintenance principles and procedures for stage electricians and sound engineers. 4557-6557. Technical Production Studio: Costume. (3). Intermediate costume construction techniques employing both traditional and experiential methods for sewing. Brings costume design from concept to reality. PREREQUISITE: THEA 3562 or permisssion of instructor. 4561. Design Studio: Scenic. (3). Application of design principles to study of analysis, design process, and graphic skills. Creative expression and portfolio development also stressed. 4562. Design Studio: Lighting and Sound. (3). Lecture/seminar/practicum investigation of arts of lighting and sound design. Includes: script analysis, design approaches and methodologies, procedures and practices for working designers, cue techniques, design styles and forms, and criticism of lighting and sound design. Research project work and staged scenes required. PREREQUISITE: THEA 4556 or permission of instructor. 4563. Design Studio: Costume. (3). Theories and techniques of aesthetics of costume design as applied to contemporary theatre. Script analysis for costume design. Character and period interpretation through line, color, and fabric. 4564. Scenography. (3). Total production design-coordination of all aspects of costume, scenery, and lighting into whole of production. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: THEA 4560 or permission of instructor.4571-6571. Playwriting. (3). Theory and principles of writing plays for stage. Practice in writing either short or long play. May be repeated for maximum of 9 semester hours. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. [W]. 4582. Script Interpretation. (3). Exploration of the script as blueprint for realization of artistic stage image. Special attention given to plot, structure, character treatment, and language style as they relate to performance, direction, and scenography. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: major or minor in Department of Theatre and Communication Arts. [I, W]. 4591. Theatre Management. (3). Procedures and practices for stage management; theatrical production management; box office; publicity and promotion for theatre and performing arts. Comparative study of commercial, educational, and amateur theatre operations. (Offered alternate years). C]. 4592-6592. Theatre Architecture And Facilities Planning. (3). Processes and techniques employed by theatre planners in design and construction/renovation of theatrical spaces and structures. Includes survey of theatre forms, historical development of theatrical structures and spaces, programming methods and procedures, specification, renovation techniques, multi-use structure concepts, and consultation procedures and practices. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4595-6595. Theatre Sound. (3). Technical and theoretical principles, equipment, operational techniques, systems design, creative design processes, and aesthetics, for Theatre Sound. Application of traditional and contemporary techniques and equipment. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]Research, project work, and related sound designs required. (Offered alternate years). 4631-6631. Acting for Film and Television. (4). Educational experience for actor in media of film and television, concentrating on dramatic, commercial and documentary areas. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: THEA 3532 (for acting majors)-OR- COMM 3823 or 3824 or permission of instructor. 4980. Honors Studies. (3). (COMM, THCA). Reserved for students enrolled in Theatre and Dance Honors Program. May be repeated for a maximum of 15 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Director of Theatre and Dance Honors Program. 4982. Honors Seminar. (3). (THCA). Intensive study of particular problems in theatre and dance. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours when semester topics vary. PREREQUISITE: permission of Director of Theatre and Dance Honors Program. 4999. Senior Honors Thesis. (3). (COMM 4981, THCA 4999). Supervised independent research project. Open only to students enrolled in the Theatre and Dance Honors Program. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: permission of Director of Theatre and Dance Honors Program. DANCE (DANC) DANC 1821, 1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, and 2827 may be used to fulfill the university degree requirements for physical activity courses. See Graduation from the University for details. 1151. Introduction to Dance. (3). Comprehensive study of dance as an expressive art form, a symbolic language, and an integral aspect of world cultures. Emphasis on developing both aesthetic response and critical skills through an analysis of major dance forms, styles, and genres. [G]. 1821. Modern Dance I. (2). Introduction to modern dance techniques; emphasis on exploration of fundamentals of dance. For student with little or no previous experience in modern dance. May be repeated for a maximum of 4 semester hours with permission of instructor. [G]. 1825. Ballet I. (2). Introduction to classical ballet technique, emphasis on barre and center floor work. For student with little or no previous experience in ballet. May be repeated for a maximum of 4 semester hours credit with permission of instructor. [G]. 1827. Jazz Dance I. (2). Contemporary jazz dance techniques; emphasis on fundamentals of idiom. For student with little or no previous experience in jazz dance. May be repeated to a maximum of 4 hours with permission of instructor. [G]. 2101. Dance Improvisation. (3). Elements of space, time and force; their interrelationships and their specific applications to movement sequences. Experiences in spontaneous development of dance phrases. May be repeated to a maximum of 6 hours with permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years). 2821. Modern Dance II. (2). (1822). Intermediate modern dance techniques. May be repeated to a maximum of 4 hours with permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: DANC 1821 or permission of instructor. [G]. 2825. Ballet II. (2). (1826). Intermediate ballet techniques. May be repeated to a maximum of 4 hours with permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: DANC 1825 or permission of instructor. [G]. 2827. Jazz Dance II. (2). (1828). Intermediate jazz dance techniques. May be repeated to a maximum of 4 hours with permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: DANC 1827 or permission of instructor. [G]. 3101. History of Dance. (3). Basic features of and uses for dance and expressive movement from early cultures to present. (Offered alternate years). 3201. Dance Movement Analysis. (3). Theory and methods of analyzing and describing dance movement. Varied semester topics: dance notation, Laban movement analysis, Bartenieff fundamentals, rhythmic analysis, kinetic awareness and body alignment techniques. Repeatable up to 6 hours with permission of instructor. PREREQUISITE: intermediate level dance technique. (Offered alternate years). 3829. Advanced Dance Techniques. (3-4). Intensive development and refinement of dance technique. Focus on artistic concerns appropriate to advanced level. Repeatable for a maximum of 16 hours with permission of the instructor. PREREQUISITE: DANC 2821 and 2825 or permission of instructor. 4000-4029-6000-6029. Special Topics in Dance. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours when topic varies. 4101-6101. Dance Repertory. (3). Exploration of stylistic, techinical, and expressive elements in rehearsal and performance. May include notated works, faculty and guest artist choreography. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. The College of Communication and Fine Arts Course 12:03:30 PM]4201-6201. Dance Composition. (3). Investigation of movement sources and development of elements of choreographic craft. Emphasis on solo and duet work. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours with permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years).4301-6301. Directed Studies in Dance. (1-3). Individual study, research or practicum. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]EDUCATION COURSE DESCRIPTIONS CONSUMER SCIENCE AND EDUCATION (CSED) COUNSELING AND PERSONNEL SERVICES (COUN)EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY AND RESEARCH (EDPR)REHABILITATION SERVICES (REHB) HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION (HPER) HEALTH (HLTH) SAFETY EDUCATION (SAFE) PHYSICAL EDUCATION (PHED) RECREATION (RECR) EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (ECED) ELEMENTARY EDUCATION (ELED) INSTRUCTION AND CURRICULUM LEADERSHIP (ICL) SPECIAL EDUCATION (SPED) EDUCATIONAL SERVICES (EDSV) LEADERSHIP (LEAD) CONSUMER SCIENCE AND EDUCATION PROFESSOR DIXIE R. CRASE, Chair Room 404, Manning Hall CONSUMER SCIENCE EDUCATION (CSED) 1101. Personal Development and Human Relations. (3). (HMEC). Individual and group adjustment and influences contributing to successful marriage and family life. 1105. Clothing Selection and Construction. (3). (HMEC). Standards in selecting and purchasing; construction of cotton garments to meet individual needs. One lecture, four laboratory hours per week. 2004. Technical Skills for Home Furnishings. (3). (HMEC). Students interested in housing, home furnishing, and related areas focus on varied program of technical skills involving quick-sketch problems, freehand floor plans, and collages. For home economics majors who lack skills necessary to demonstrate concepts of depicting home furnishing interiors. 2005. Introduction to Fashion Merchandising. (3). (HMEC). Introduction to the types of enterprises, activities, operations, interrelationships, and practices in fashion industry. Emphasis on merchandising terminology and techniques. 2101. The Family in Global Perspective. (3). (HMEC). (Same as SOCI 2101). Introduction to family as a primary, global, social institution. Contributions sociology, anthropology, and home economics have made to understanding how and why family systems vary worldwide and common bonds and problems facing families in modern societies. [G]. 2104. Home Furnishings and Related Arts. (3). (HMEC). Elements and principles of design applied to selection and arrangement of house and its furnishings. 2106. Visual Merchandising. (3). (HMEC). Theory and practice in visual merchandising (display); especially retail interior and window display techniques, display creation, planning promotions, and determining budgets. 2202. Nutrition. (3). (HMEC). Study of nutrients for the consumer. Nutrition for preventive health throughout the life cycle. 2302. Principles of Food Preparation. (3). (HMEC). Multicultural aspect of food selection, availability, and life style influences. One lecture, four laboratory hours per week. 3100. Consumer Education. (2). (HMEC 3100, 3405). Examination of consumer problems in today's market place; emphasis on decision making, consumer rights and responsibilities and consumer information sources. 3204. Housing and Equipment. (3). (HMEC 4203, 3204). (Same as ART 3204). Socio-economics and design aspects of housing; kitchen planning principles; selection, use, and care of household equipment. PREREQUISITE: CSED 2104. 3206. Merchandising Systems. (3). (HMEC). Analysis of formulas used to plan and control the flow of merchandise through the use of both computer and manual systems. PREREQUISITE: Satisfactory completion of the General Education mathematics requirements. Accounting also recommended. [C]. 3302. Child and Adolescent Development. (3). (EDUC 3302). (Same as EDPR 3302). Principles and processes of child and The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]adolescent development applied to education. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 2111 (CSED 1101 FOR CSED MAJORS). 3401. Parenthood Education. (3). (HMEC). Parental role, parent-child relationship, and factors that influence parenthood. 3602. Food Service Equipment and Furnishings. (3). (HMEC). Principles of food service equipment selection and use. Critical thinking and problem solving related to food service design and layout. Technology of food service equipment for commercial and institutional settings. PREREQUISITES: CSED 2104 and 2302, or permission of instructor. 4002. Advanced Nutrition. (3). (HMEC 4002, 4402). In-depth study of nutrients and body utilization and discussion of current issues in nutrition. PREREQUISITES: CSED 2202, CHEM 1131/1121, 1132/1122. 4101-6101. Preschool Curriculum. (3). (HMEC). Application of child development principles to program planning; infancy through four years of age. 4102. Diet Therapy. (3). (HMEC). Dietary problems applicable to prevention and treatment of disease in which therapeutic diets are of major importance. Computer applications in diet modifications. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 1751-1752, CSED 2202, 4002; or permission of instructor. 4106. Trends and Issues in Home Economics. (3). (HMEC 4106, 3106). Senior capstone seminar that applies synergistic thinking to integrative discipline of home economics and specializations that make up the discipline. Focus on changing trends, issues, and technology affecting today's home economics professional. Professional orientation and leadership skills critiqued and enhanced in oral and written activities. [W,I]. 4204-6204. Furnishings Problems and Presentations. (3). (HMEC). Critical thinking and problem solving related to planning, coordinating, and purchasing of home furnishings. Two lecture, one lab hour per week. PREREQUISITE: CSED 2004, 4304. 4205. Behavioral Science Aspects of Clothing. (3). (HMEC). Interdisciplinary study of clothing and appearance: concepts, methodologies, and applications of behavioral science to clothing. 4211-4217. Readings. (1-3). For Senior Consumer Science majors. In-depth reading or research in area of specialization. PREREQUISITE: Senior Consumer Science majors only. 4211. Readings in Child Development and Family Relations. (HMEC 4200-001). 4212. Readings in Foods and Nutrition. (HMEC 4200-002). 4213. Readings in Family Economics and Consumer Education. (HMEC 4200-003). 4214. Readings in Housing and Home Furnishings. (HMEC 4200-004). 4215. Readings in Clothing and Textiles. (HMEC 4200-005). 4216. Readings in Fashion Merchandising. (HMEC 4200-006). 4217. Readings in Home Economics Education. (HMEC 4200-007). 4300-6300. Family Resource Management. (3). (HMEC). Investigates values, goals, and human and material resources necessary for individuals and families to make informed management decisions throughout the life span. 4302. Food Service Personnel Management. (3). (HMEC). Management of multicultural food service labor pools including recruiting, selection, and training. Global influences on personnel availability. 4304-6304. Trends in Housing and Home Furnishings. (3). (HMEC 4304, 3104). Major trends and influences on contemporary residential furnishings as these affect home furnishings merchandising. PREREQUISITE: CSED 2104. 4312. Financial Management of Food Systems. (3). (HMEC). Problem solving and critical thinking related to budgeting for food services, managerial finance, and productivity indicators. Use of computer and spread sheets. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 2010. 4314. Contemporary Trends in Housing/Home Furnishings. (3). Multicultural and global trends of the 20th Century on housing and home furnishings. Emphasis on major design influences as they relate to housing/home furnishings. 4383-6383. Materials and Methods in Secondary Home Economics. (3). (HMEC). Methods in high school subjects with an emphasis in Consumer Science and Education Instruction. 4393-6393. Occupational Education in Home Economics. (3). (HMEC 4393, 3393). Special emphasis on instructional strategies and evaluation through classroom and on-site participation. PREREQUISITE: CSED 3383. 4405-6405. Textiles. (3). (HMEC). Selection, use, and care of textiles related to properties of fibers, yarn structures, fabric The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]construction, and finishes. Morphology and chemistry of fibers, finishes, dyes, fabric maintenance, and procedure involved in fiber, yarn, and fabric identification. 4412. Food and Beverage Purchasing. (3). (HMEC). Global influence of food availability, menu planning for multicultural patrons, critical thinking, and problem solving related to purchasing decisions. 4502. Quantity Foods. (3). (HMEC). Menu writing for multicultural patrons, development of critical thinking and problem solving related to food production and quality assurance. Computer applications in food service. PREREQUISITES: CSED 3602, 4412. 4600. Senior Seminar in Merchandising. (6). (HMEC). Concentrated study of factors influencing fashion and home furnishings merchandising functions and transitional process from career academics to career implementation. PREREQUISITES: It is recommended that all other course requirements for graduation be satisfied prior to professional semester. Approved application for admission preceding semester of enrollment. COREQUISITE: Fashion Concentration-CSED 4705; Home Furnishings Concentration- CSED 4804. 4602-6602. Community Nutrition. (3). (HMEC). Nutritional problems and practices of various ethnic, age, and socio-economic groups. Community and agencies concerned with meeting these needs. PREREQUISITE: CSED 2202 or permission of instructor. 4612. Effective Teaching Methods in Health Care. (3). (HMEC). Development of effective teaching methods for use with patients/clients. Emphasis on demonstration, practice, critique. 4702-6702. Food Production Internship. (3). (HMEC 4702-001, 4302-001). Supervised field experience in the field of food production management. 4705. Fashion Merchandising Internship. (3,6). (HMEC). Supervised full-time work experience in fashion merchandising in approved business establishments. Majors may not enroll for more than a total of 12 semester hours during professional semester. COREQUISITE: CSED 4600. (S/U). 4712-6712. Clinical Nutrition Internship. (3). (HMEC). Supervised field experience in clinical nutrition. PREREQUISITE: CSED 4102. (S/U). 4722-6722. Catering Internship. (3). (HMEC 4702-002, 4202-002). Supervised field experience in the field of catering. 4802. Experimental Foods. (3). (HMEC). Technology related to chemical properties of foods and the development of new food products. Critical thinking and problem solving skills used in the preparation and evaluation of food products. PREREQUISITES: CSED 2102, CHEM 1111, 3311. 4804. Home Furnishings Merchandising Internship. (3,6). Supervised full-time work experience in home furnishings merchandising in approved business establishments. Majors may not enroll for more than a total of 12 semester hours during professional semester. COREQUISITE: CSED 4600. (S/U). 4901-4906/6901-6906. Consumer Science Study Tour. (1-3). (HMEC 4900-6900). On-the-scene knowledge about specific academic areas of specialization within Consumer Science and Education. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Maximum of 6 credit hours for degree program. 4901. Study Tour: Child Development and Family Relations. (HMEC 4900-001). 4902. Study Tour: Foods and Nutrition. (HMEC 4900-002). 4903. Study Tour: Family Economics and Consumer Education. (HMEC 4900-003). 4904. Study Tour: Housing and Home Furnishings. (HMEC 4900-004). 4905. Study Tour: Clothing and Textiles. (HMEC 4900-005). 4906. Study Tour: Fashion Merchandising. (HMEC 4900-006). 4920-29-6920-29. Special Topics in Consumer Science and Education. (1-3). (HMEC). Lectures and conferences covering selected areas of current interest. See Schedule of Classes for topics. May be repeated; credit applicable to degree is limited. 4940-49. Workshop in Consumer Science and Education. (1-3). (HMEC). Group study related to specific phases of home economics. May be repeated. COUNSELING, EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY AND RESEARCH PROFESSOR MARGARET L. FONG, Chair The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]Room 100, College of Education Building COUNSELING AND PERSONNEL SERVICES (COUN) 1661. Career Development. (3). Relationship of interests, aptitudes and careers. Includes exploration of work settings and activities to support individual career planning. Students expected to investigate work settings, relate this investigation to academic programs, and utilize this information in individual career development. 4002. Independent Study in Counseling. (1-3). Opportunity for self-directed study and/or research under the supervision of faculty member. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 semester hours credit. PREREQUISITE: consent of faculty member. (S/U). 4010-29. Special Topics in Counseling and Personnel Services. (3). Topics varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4150-6150. Interpersonal Skills for Educators. (3). (EDSV). Development of human relation skills to enhance educator's ability to interact effectively with people in educational environments. 4611. Introduction to Counseling. (3). Exploration of history, principles and administration of counseling services in community agencies, schools, business and industry. Survey of applicable counseling services, skills and techniques. 4621. Human Interactions. (3). Human relations exercises and other personal experiences related to effective learning climates. Includes communication skills for working in groups, one-to-one relationships, and identification and referral of persons to appropriate resources. 4691. Residence Hall Staff Counseling and Advising. (3). Practical experience for residence hall staff. Instruction and supervision provided. Individual and group activities in counseling, advising, communication, and leadership. Concerns such as drug abuse, family planning information, and student discipline. Utilizes interdepartmental disciplines. 4781. Strategies for Crisis Intervention. (3). Process of crisis intervention. Study and practice in understanding crisis induced dysfunctional behavior, recognizing crisis situations, and crisis counseling procedures. 4782. Gerontological Counseling. (3). Survey of demographic, developmental, physiological, sensory and psychosocial aspects of aging as applied to counseling. Experiences in use of appropriate individual and group counseling techniques for aged; emphasis on particular crisis situations such as retirement, leisure, relocation, housing, institutionalization, dying, death, and survivorship. 4783. Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services. (3). Survey of human services for treating alcoholics and substance abusers. Overview of treatment strategies and philosophies. EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY AND RESEARCH (EDPR) 2111. Development Across the Life Span. (3). (EDPS). Principles and processes of human development across the life span. 3100. Assessment and Evaluation. (3). (EDUC). Assessment techniques, test construction, interpretation, and their relationship to instructional decisions. Ethical issues of assessment and assessment needs of diverse populations. [C] 3121. Cognitive Processes Applied to Education. (3). Major theories and perspectives on classroom learning; emphasis on cognitive processes, individual differences, strategies for instruction, motivation, critical thinking, and self regulation of learning. Prerequisite: EDPR 2111 or permission of instructor. 3300. Infant Development. (3). Theories, philosophies, research, and pedagogy relating to optimal development and education of infants and toddlers. Prerequisite: EDPR 2111 or permission of instructor. 3301. Early Childhood Development. (3). Theories, research, and pedagogy which facilitate the cognitive, socioemotional, and physical stages of children's development from 3-8 years of age. Prerequisite: EDPR 2111 or permission of instructor. 3302. Child and Adolescent Development. (3). (EDUC). (Same as CSED 3302). Principles and processes of child and adolescent development applied to education. Prerequisite: EDPR 2111 or permission of instructor. 4008. Special Problems in Educational Psychology and Research. (1-3). (EDFD). Individually directed reading, field study or research; written report required. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. 4530-6530. Microcomputers in Education: Theoretical and Technical Foundations. (3). (EDRS). History, development, and status of microcomputers in education and introduction to technical knowledge and skills needed to operate microcomputers for specialized educational applications. Prerequisite knowledge for advanced computer-related training in different education specialty areas. The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]4541. Fundamentals of Applied Statistical Methods. (3). (EDRS). Use of statistical techniques in education and behavioral sciences; emphasis on practical use and interpretation of concepts. Self-instructional. [C] REHABILITATION SERVICES (REHB) 3901. Introduction to Disabling Conditions and Their Helping Professions. (3). (COUN). Physical, mental, and social disabling conditions and their effect on lives of handicapped and their families. Roles of various helping professions in rehabilitation of such conditions. 3911. Techniques of Vocational Evaluation. (3). (COUN). Introduction to psychometric tests and work samples used in assessment of persons with disabling conditions. Includes administration, interpretation, and synthesizing of test results as well as report writing and use of word processor in developing reports. 3912. Techniques of Work Adjustment. (3). (COUN). Introduction to techniques and strategies used in work adjustment setting. Includes behavioral observation and reporting, development of behavior management plan, time studies, contract bids, and program development. 4902. Adjustment of Disabling Conditions. (3). (SPER) (COUN). Medical, social, and psychological impact of disabling conditions as related to vocational potential. Includes theories of adjustment to physical and mental disabilities and social and psychological aspects of disabling conditions. 4903. Techniques of Rehabilitation Education. (3). (SPER) (COUN). Focus on theories of human behavioral change as they relate to working with disabled persons. Student will develop life skills curriculum plans and behavioral programs and conduct job/task analysis related to various disability groups. 4905. Assessment Techniques in Counseling. (3). (SPER) (COUN). Use of biographical, psychological, medical and job information for case planning. 4941. Practicum in Rehabilitation. (3-6). (SPER) (COUN). Practical experiences in various rehabilitation settings. PREREQUISITE: REHB 3901 or consent of instructor. (S/U). HUMAN MOVEMENT SCIENCES AND EDUCATION PROFESSOR RALPH C. WILCOX, Ph.D., Chair Room 106, Fieldhouse HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND RECREATION (HPER) 1100. Concepts of Fitness and Wellness. (2). Emphasis on individual responsibility for achieving optimal well-being and preventive health practices that promote healthful lifestyles and reduce risk factors. [G]. 4999. Senior Project in Health or Physical Education or Recreation. (3). Comprehensive final project which demonstrates mastery of pedagogy and knowledge. Emphasis on independent work, class discussion and student project. Students will receive a letter grade or an in-progress grade. PREREQUISITES: senior status and completion of or matriculation in HLTH 4402 or PHED 4605 or RECR 4605; or permission of instructor. (A-F,IP). [I] HEALTH (HLTH) 1102. Personal Health. (3). Concepts of personal health including chronic and infectious diseases, sexually transmitted diseases, mental health, substance use and abuse, health consumerism, sexuality, aging, and death and dying. 1202. Introduction to Community Health. (3). Purpose, roles, responsibilities and services of community health agencies; environmental health, sanitation, public health, community relations and health career trends and issues. 3102. Materials and Methods in Health Education. (3). Methods, materials, and resources for health teaching; emphasis on improving health behavior through sound health teaching. 3202. The School Health Program. (3). Historical and philosophical study of growth and development of health education, including school health programs, health services, healthful school environment and health instruction. 3306. School Health, Safety and First Aid. (3). School health program involving health services, healthful school living, health screening, home and school safety; health content, skills and materials suitable for elementary education; first aid with CPR. The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]3402. Chronic and Communicable Diseases. (3). Modern concepts of disease; etiology, screening, detection, prevention and control of common communicable and chronic diseases. 4000-HPRO6000. Lifetime Wellness I. (3). Concepts, applications, and assessments for secondary teachers of Lifetime Wellness. Emphasis on personal fitness, disease prevention and nutrition. Credit does not count toward major. 4001-HPRO6001. Lifetime Wellness II. (3). Concepts, applications and assessments for secondary teachers of Lifetime Wellness. Emphasis on mental health, safety and first aid, sexuality and family life, and substance use/abuse. Credit does not count towards major. 4102. Critical Issues in Health. (3). Critical and controversial issues of health explored. [W]. 4182-6182. Health Aspects of Gerontology. (3). Current issues and trends in gerontology on the health and quality of life of the aging. 4202-20-HPRO6202-20. Workshops in Health Promotion. (1-3). Selected phases of health and health education through group study. In--depth study in areas of interest to persons in health education and related fields. 4203-HPRO6401. Workshop in Death and Dying Education. (3). Examination of dying and death phenomena by cognitive, affective, experiential and cultural perspectives. 4204-HPRO6501. Workshop in Sexuality Education. (3). Special study of selected phases of human sexuality. 4205-HPRO6601. Workshop in Drug Education. (3). Current issues concerning drug use and abuse including etiology, knowledge base, drug laws, and educational prevention approaches. 4302-6302. Observation in Community Health Agencies. (3). Introduction to purposes, objectives, functions and programs of community health and welfare agencies, with opportunities to visit public and private agencies and interview various representatives.4402. Practicum in Public Health Education. (1-9). Field experience in public health education. Practical work under supervision of government or voluntary agencies. May be repeated for a maximum of 18 hours. (S/U). 4502. Problems in Health Education. (1-3). Independent study or research project on selected health problems or issues. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. 4602-HPRO6602. Organization and Administration in Public Health. (3). Basic functions, principles, and procedures of organization and administration as applied to health. Emphasis on relationship and responsibilities of personnel in planning, promoting, improving and evaluating total health activities in family-centered health services. 4802-6802. Environmental Health. (3). Survey of complex association between environment and human productivity, health, and happiness. Environmental factors within the general framework of ecological perspective in which the interrelationships of all living things to one another affect human growth and well-being. 4902-11-HPRO6902-11. Special Topics in Health Promotion. Current topics in health. May be repeated with change in topic and content. See Schedule of Classes for specific topics. SAFETY EDUCATION (SAFE) 2102. First Aid and Emergency Care. (3). Safety skills and techniques of immediate and temporary care in event of injury or sudden illness. Successful completion qualifies student for First Aid certificate endorsed by the National Safety Council. 2202. Safety Education. (3). Causes of accidents and action designed for prevention of accidents in home, school, and community. Content and materials for safety education in school instructional program. 3302. Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and Emergency Life Support. (3). Basic life support techniques of Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and other emergency life support situations. Successful completion qualifies student for certification in basic life support course Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) by the American Heart Association. 3502. Prevention and Care of Athletic Injuries. (3). Practical and theoretical aspects of treatment of athletic injuries in athletic training program; supplies, training table, therapeutic equipment, and techniques in conditioning and bandaging. PREREQUISITE: SAFE 2102 or consent of instructor. 4207-16-6207-16. Workshop in Driver and Traffic Safety Education. (1-3). For in-service and prospective teachers of grades 7-12. Improvement of teaching/ learning process as applied to driver and traffic safety education. Attention to common elements of teaching methodology, utilization of appropriate driver and traffic safety education materials and resources and The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]evaluative criteria. 4335-6335. Driver and Traffic Safety Education I. (3). Basic knowledge and skills to deal with problems of vehicular traffic. Defensive driving and driver improvement techniques stressed. Students desiring teacher certification must enroll concurrently in SAFE 4336 for one semester hour in order to complete laboratory requirements. 4336-6336. Driver and Traffic Safety Education -- Lab I. (1). Laboratory experiences dealing with classroom and in-car instruction. Required for all students desiring certification in driver education. Two hours each week: COREQUISITE: To be taken concurrently with SAFE 4335. 4337-6337. Driver and Traffic Safety Education II. (3). Advanced driver and traffic safety educational activities. Includes study of current research in accident causation and prevention. Students desiring teacher certification must enroll concurrently in SAFE 4338 for one semester hour in order to complete laboratory requirements. 4338-6338. Driver and Traffic Safety Education -- Lab II. (1). Laboratory experiences dealing with classroom, in-car multi- vehicle range and simulation instruction. Two hours each week: COREQUISITE: To be taken concurrently with SAFE 4337. 4402. Internship in Health and Safety. (1-9). Supervised experience in a setting appropriate to the student's area of specialization; opportunity to apply professional competencies. May be repeated for a maximum of 18 hours when taken in different settings. PREREQUISITE: Approval in advance. (S/U). 4902-11-6902-11. Special Topics in Safety Education. (1-3). Current topics in safety education. May be repeated with change in topic and content. See Schedule of Classes for specific topic. 4922. Emergency Medical Technology. (9). Prehospital emergency care for the Emergency Medical Technician. Recognition and treatment of traumatic and nontraumatic injuries, medical emergencies; observations of local emergency medical service providers. Successful completion will qualify student for State Certification Examinations. PREREQUISITES: Junior standing, SAFE 2102 and 3302; or consent of instructor. PHYSICAL EDUCATION (PHED) Required physical activity courses may be selected from the courses numbered 1000 through 1951. See Note 4 below for full listing of physical activity course options. NOTE 1: The prerequisite for each advanced activity course is the introductory course or its equivalent. NOTE 2: Any student except those with a major or minor in Physical Education has the option of taking these activity courses for a letter grade or on a credit/ no credit basis. Students majoring in the Fogleman College of Business and Economics should check with their advisor before registering on a credit/no credit basis. NOTE 3: PHED 1001, 1003, 1004 and 1006 may be repeated once for credit. ALL other physical activity courses (1000-1951) may not be repeated unless title and content vary. NOTE 4: The university general education fitness and wellness requirement, including approved physical activity courses, is as follows:Fitness and Wellness (4 hours): HPER 1100 plus two semester hours of physical activity from the following: any 1000 level PHED course; DANC 1821,1825, 1827, 2821, 2825, 2827; MUAP 2002; THEA 2501, AERO 1111, 1112, 2211, 2212; ARMY 2115/2120; NAVY 1100, 1104, 2204, 2206, 3000. Students completing NAVY 1100, 1104, 2206 and 2204 or 3000 will satisfy the entire 4-hour Fitness and Wellness requirement as will students completing the Advanced Course in Military Science (ARMY 3100, 3111, 3115, 3121, 4100, 4111, 4115, and 4121). 1001. Figure Control and Conditioning. (2). May be repeated once for credit. [G]. 1003. Aerobics. (2). May be repeated once for credit. [G]. 1004. Jogging. (2). May be repeated once for credit. [G]. 1005. Conditioning for Varsity Sports. (2). (1001003). Open only to varsity athletes, cheerleaders, and members of the pom pon squad. May be repeated once for credit. [G].1006. Water Aerobics. (2). May be repeated once for credit. [G].1010-19. Selected Physical Education Activities. (1-3). Current activities in physical education. See Schedule of Classes for specific activity. May be repeated with a change in topic. [G]. The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]1201. Adaptive Activity. (2). May be repeated for a maximum of 4 hours. [G].1202. Juggling. (2). [G]. 1301. Nautilus. (2). [G]. 1302. Free Weights and Machines. (2). (1301001) [G]. 1331. Camping. (2). [G]. 1332. Advanced Camping. (2). [G]. 1333. Backpacking. (2). (1331001). [G]. 1334. Advanced Camping. Rock Climbing. (2). (1332001). [G]. 1335. Advanced Camping. Caving. (2). (1332003). [G]. 1361. Equitation: Western Style. (2). (1361001). [G]. 1412. Judo. (2). [G]. 1413. Self Defense Techniques. (2). (1412001). [G]. 1441. Karate. (2). [G]. 1442. Advanced Karate. (2). [G]. 1461. Fencing. (2). [G]. 1462. Intermediate Foil Fencing. (2). [G]. 1501. Tennis. (2). [G]. 1502. Intermediate Tennis. (2). [G]. 1503. Advanced Tennis. (2). (1502). [G]. 1521. Racquetball. (2). [G]. 1522. Intermediate Racquetball. (2). [G]. 1523. Advanced Racquetball. (2). (1522). [G]. 1531. Handball. (2). [G]. 1541. Badminton. (2). [G]. 1551. Archery. (2). [G]. 1561. Bowling. (2). [G]. 1562. Intermediate Bowling. (2). [G]. 1571. Golf. (2). [G]. 1572. Intermediate Golf. (2). [G]. 1581. Recreational Games. (2). [G]. 1624. Stunts and Tumbling. (2). (1621004). [G]. 1711. Beginning Swimming I. (2). [G]. 1712. Beginning Swimming II. (2). [G]. 1713. Intermediate Swimming. (2). [G]. *1722. Swimming -- Lifeguarding. (2). [G]. The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]*1741. Advanced Swimming. (2). [G]. 1742. Conditioning Through Swimming. (2). (1741001). [G]. *1771. Scuba. (2). [G]. *1772. Advanced Scuba. (2). [G]. *1781. Boating and Small Craft. (2). [G]. 1782. Kayaking. (2). (1781001). [G]. 1783. Canoeing. (2). (1781002). [G]. 1811. Rhythms for Elementary School. (2). [G]. 1812. Square and Round Dance. (2). American square, round and contra dance. [G]. 1813. Folk and Social Dance. (2). International folk dance and American ballroom and social dance. [G].1921. Basketball. (2). [G]. 1923. Volleyball. (2). [G]. 1924. Intermediate Volleyball. (2). [G]. 1931. Soccer and Fieldsports. (2). [G]. 1941. Track and Field Events. (2). [G]. *The prerequisite for these courses is Physical Education skills 1713. 2000. Health Aspects of Physical Fitness. (3). (3503). Health related aspects of physical fitness. Focuses upon relationship between physically active lifestyle and wellness. 2001. Concepts and Applications of Conditioning. (3). Overview of physical conditioning programs with emphasis on selection, development, and leadership of programs to foster cardiovascular and musculoskeletal development. PREREQUISITE: PHED 2000. 2002. Techniques of Team Sports. (3). Knowledge, skills, and techniques of teaching basketball, soccer, softball, track and field, and volleyball to children and youth. 2003. Techniques of Individual Sports. (3). Knowledge, skills, and techniques of teaching selected individual and recreational sports to youth; include but not limited to badminton, tennis, and golf. 2009. Dance Instruction in the Physical Education Program. (3). Knowledges, skills, and techniques of teaching dance activities to children and youth. 2103. Fundamentals and Techniques of Football. (2). Coaching techniques, training and conditioning methods appropriate to football. 2403. Fundamentals and Techniques of Baseball and Softball. (2). Coaching techniques, training and conditioning methods appropriate to baseball and softball. 2503. Fundamentals and Techniques of Volleyball. (2). Coaching techniques, training and conditioning methods appropriate to volleyball. 2703. Water Safety Instructor. (3). (SAFE). Analysis, practice, and teaching of swimming and life saving skills and general water safety practice. PREREQUISITE: PHED 1722. 3307. Psychosocial Aspects of Sport. (3). (2101). Psychosocial and sociological principles related to sport and physical activity. Principles studied in relationship to participant, coach, and spectator. 3308. Physical Activity for Students with Special Needs. (2). Nature, etiology of disabilities prevalent in children; other knowledge and technical skills pertinent to design of adapted physical activity programs for specific disabilities. PREREQUISITES: SPED 2000; PHED 3604, 3605; COREQUISITE: PHED 3309. The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]3309. Clinical Experience in Physical Activity for Students with Special Needs. (1). Observation and participation activities with teaching assistant responsibilities in a laboratory setting in physical activity with special problems. COREQUISITE: PHED 3308. (S/U).3406. Lifeguarding and Pool Management. (2). (SAFE). Theory and application of life-guarding skills, pool management, records/reports and pool maintenance and sanitation. PREREQUISITES: PHED 1722 or Red Cross Lifesaving Certificate; SAFE 2102 or equivalent and SAFE 3302 or Red Cross or Heart Association CPR/Basic Life Support. 3603. Physiological Basis of Strength and Endurance. (3). General and specific view of the two main components of physical fitness.3604. Teaching Physical Education in Grades Kindergarten-Elementary. (2). Skills, activities, strategies, and resource materials for teaching elements of movement, educational games, educational gymnastics, and physical fitness to children. COREQUISITE: PHED 3605. 3605. Clinical Experience in Teaching Physical Education in Grades K-Elementary. (1). Observation and teaching of mini- lessons in physical activity in an elementary school setting. COREQUISITE: PHED 3604. (S/U). 3703. Physiology of Exercise. (4). Scientific basis of physiological principles of various systems and organs of the body in response to muscular activity. Emphasis on principles of motor performance and training with appropriate laboratory experience. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 1751/1752, 1761/1762. 3803. Motor Learning. (3). Principles and conditions that influence the learning and performance of motor skills. 3903. Historical and Philosophical Aspects of Physical Activity. (3). Development of the discipline of physical education through historical, philosophical, sociological and scientific bases. PREREQUISITES: upper division standing and English Composition requirement. [W].4102-11-EXSS6102-11. Workshop in Physical Education, Sport and Dance. (1-6). Selected phases of physical education, sport or dance through group study. In-depth study of area of interest and need for physical education teachers, coaches and administrators. May be repeated with a change in topic. 4204. Tests and Measurements in Physical Education. (3). Measurement techniques, tools and resources and their application to assessment of physical performance and fitness factors. Laboratory experiences required. [C]. 4303. Problems in Physical Education. (1-3). Independent study and/or research project on selected physical education problem, issue or concern. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4305. Professional Experiences in Physical Education. (1). Practical experiences in variety of on-campus settings related to students' training and experience. 4401-EXSS6406. Electrophysiology and EKG Interpretation. (3). Introduction to electrophysiology of muscle cells; emphasis on cardiac muscle cells; mechanics and interpretation of EKG. 4403-EXSS6403. Kinesiology. (3). Study of selected anatomical systems as they relate to purposeful movement of the human body. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 1751/1752, 1761/1762. 4503. Organization and Administration of Physical Education. (3). Administrative problems of physical education, including curriculum, facilities, buying and caring for equipment, general class organization, and organization of intramural program. 4605. Internship in Physical Education. (3-9). Supervised culminating experience allowing students opportunity to demonstrate knowledge and skills in appropriate professional setting based upon their training and experience. PREREQUISITE: approval in advance. (S/U). 4613-6613. Management and Care of Athletic Facilities and Equipment. (3). Modern techniques and procedures used in management of interscholastic and intercollegiate athletic facilities. Additional emphasis on selection and care of appropriate functional athletic equipment. 4808. Teaching Physical Activity in Grades 7-12. (2). (3808). Teaching strategies, management techniques, curricula planning, evaluation and research for effective teaching in grades 7-12. PREREQUISITES: ICL 3000; PHED 2002, 2003, 2009. COREQUISITE: PHED 4809. 4809. Clinical Experience in Teaching Physical Activity in Grades 7-12. (1). (3809). Observation and the teaching of mini- lessons in physical activity in junior or senior high school. COREQUISITE: PHED 4808. (S/U). 4902-11-EXSS6902-11. Special Topics in Physical Education. (3). Current topics in physical education. May be repeated with change in topic and content. See Schedule of Classes for specific topics. The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]RECREATION (RECR) 2105. Introduction to Recreation and Parks. (3). Nature of recreation experience and its importance to the individual; influence of leisure on society; public, voluntary, military and commercial delivery systems for recreation and park services. 2205. Youth Service Organization. (2). Introduction to agencies servicing leisure time needs of children and adults. Emphasis on YMCA, YWCA, CYO, JCC, BSA, and GSA. Objectives, organization, program, and membership of principal national youth agencies. 3102. Introduction to Therapeutic Recreation. (3). Theoretical and philosophical foundations of therapeutic recreation, history of therapeutic recreation, concepts of illness and disability, role of professional recreation therapist, and survey of therapeutic recreation services and settings. 3103. Outdoor Education. (3). Philosophy, modern trends, park interpretation, administration, program content and methods of leadership in outdoor education activities. Opportunities for field trips to practice leadership skills. 3104. Public, Private and Commercial Recreation Services. (3). Public, private and commercial recreation agencies; evaluation of overall range of recreation units; critical study of fundamental differences among these delivery systems. 3105. Philosophy and Principles of Recreation. (3). Work, leisure, play, and recreation, attention to sound principles of recreation. [W]. 3202. Techniques In Therapeutic Recreation. (3). Basic therapeutic recreation methods emphasizing leadership and intervention techniques, assessment of client needs, activity analysis, program planning, and evaluative procedures. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 1731, 1732. 3203. Resource Management in Recreation. (3). Management, operation and maintenance of areas and facilities within field of recreation and parks; identification, acquisition, allocation, development and management of land and water resources through environmentally sound techniques. 3204. Management of Recreation Services. (3). Inter-personal skills necessary in administration and management of recreation personnel, critical areas of manager/employee relationships; legal basis and legal aspects of recreation and park service. Offered alternate years only. 3205. Park and Recreation Facilities. (3). Planning, development, and maintenance of parks and recreation facilities. Includes inspection, comprehensive recreation surveys, and planning a layout. 3305. Program Planning in Recreation. (3). Program fields in relation to programming principles, planning objectives, structural organization, purposes and values of types of activities, programs for special groups, and program evaluation. 3605. Outdoor Recreation. (3). Organization and administration of programs and activities in large park areas and forests. Outings, campfire programs, picnics, hiking, outdoor cookery, trailing, climbing, class and field activity. 3905. Recreation for Special Populations. (3). Population segments of American society that are considered physically, socially, mentally and emotionally abnormal; emphasis on examining recreational needs of special populations. 4001-6001. Park Visitor Management I: Introduction. (2). Evolution of park visitor management theory, marketing and programming for today's park and recreation areas; use of information as management tool. 4002-6002. Park Visitor Management II: Interpretive Services. (2). Interpretative programs as means of enhancing visitor enjoyment and education while aiding park managers in mission of protecting park resources. 4003-6003. Park Visitor Management III: Backcountry Techniques. (2). Theories and techniques of backcountry visitor outdoor recreation skills, development of backcountry management plans, and current trends in recreation area management. 4004-6004. Park Visitor Management IV: Hazards, Search and Rescue. (2). Theories and techniques of hazard management, legal and ethical implications, visitor search and rescue. 4102. Leisure Education for Recreation Therapy. (3). Leisure education as applied in recreation therapy settings. Analysis of groups served, programs offered, interagency coordination and general trends in the profession today. 4103. Camp Administration, Counseling and Programming. (3). History, administration, organization and operation of organized camping programs; emphasis on program planning, camp administration, staff selection, training and camp counseling techniques as practiced today. 4104. Leadership Seminar in Recreation. (3). Dynamics of leadership; theories, principles and practices of leadership; research The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]in leadership, issues and problems of working with individuals and groups. 4105. Recreational Leadership. (3). Development of skills and techniques necessary for successful leadership in recreation and park programs. 4203. Aquatic Administration. (2). Administration and management of aquatic programs; emphasizes organization and direction of aquatic programs in recreational and educational environments. 4305. Field Problems in Recreation. (1-6). Selected problems in areas of recreation and parks through individual and group field experience. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4405-6405. Organization and Administration of Recreation. (3). Community organization, its philosophy, foundation and principles. Selected administrative practices that relate to successful recreational organization and administration. 4505. Recreation Planning and Technological Support Systems. (3). Process and products of urban recreation planning; focus on basic concepts, measures, methodology, the park and recreation plan and use of computer. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. [C].4605. Internship In Recreation and Parks. (3-9). Supervised professional field experience; opportunity to relate theory to practical experience. May be repeated for maximum of 18 hours. PREREQUISITE: Consent of instructor. (S/U). 4705-15-SLC6102-11. Workshop in Recreation and Parks. (1-6). Selected phases of recreation, parks or leisure studies. In- depth study of areas of interest and need for persons in recreation and parks or related fields. May be repeated with a change in topic.4905-15-SLC6902-11. Special Topics In Recreation, Parks, and Leisure Studies. (1-3). Current topics in recreation, parks, and leisure studies. May be repeated with change in topic and content. See Schedule of Classes for specific topic. INSTRUCTION AND CURRICULUM LEADERSHIP ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR STEPHEN B. GRAVES, Ph.D., Chair Room 106D, College of Education Building EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (ECED) 3555. Observation and Assessment of Infant and Early Childhood Development. (3). Developmental perspective on measurement and evaluation in early childhood years. Considers standardized tests, observations, checklists and rating scales, and tests designed by teachers; their advantages and disadvantages for use with young children; and professional ethical issues pertaining to evaluating young children. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 2111, 3300, 3301. 3565. Development of Play in Early Childhood. (3). Role of play in early childhood development and learning from birth through age eight; applications of play theory to young children's total development and learning; and study of play environments and adult roles in supporting appropriate play activities and environments. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 2111, 3300, 3301. 4510. Early Childhood Programs and Practices. (3). Applying professional knowledge to early childhood education values and principles, programs and practices, issues, problems, and trends; and exploring early childhood teacher roles and responsibilities through observations in multi-cultural early childhood program settings. (Sp). PREREQUISITES: EDPR 2111, 3300, 3301 and TEP admission. COREQUISITE: ECED 4520. 4520. Planning and Facilitating Social Learning and Development. (3). Focus on planning, implementing, and evaluating programs to facilitate young children's social learning and development from birth through age 8. Socialization and social science skills, knowledge, and dispositions addressed in context of integrating instruction and learning with children's literature, art, music, mathematics, science, etc. (Sp). PREREQUISITE: TEP admission. COREQUISITE: ECED 4510. 4530. Planning and Facilitating Math and Science Learning and Development. (3). Knowledge skills and dispositions necessary to plan for and facilitate development and learning of physical, logico-mathematical, and social knowledge of mathematics and science for children from birth through eight years. (F). PREREQUISITES: ECED 4510, 4520. 4540. Planning and Facilitating Infant and Toddler Development. (3). Models, principles, curriculum and practices of developmentally appropriate infant-toddler care giving; emphasis on teacher's knowledge, skills and dispositions necessary to plan and facilitate development of infants and toddlers in group care settings. (F). PREREQUISITES: ECED 3565, 4510, 4520. ELEMENTARY EDUCATION (ELED) The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]2211. Introduction to Early Childhood Education. (3). Principles, practices, and evaluation of early childhood education programs; teacher's role and children's characteristics from infancy through third grade. Observations in varied socio-economic day care centers, kindergartens, and primary grades. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. 3111. Early Childhood Social Studies and Children's Literature. (3). Evaluation and implementation of curriculum, instructional materials, teaching methods and strategies, and organizational principles for teaching social science concepts and literature to children from four through ten years. Supervised lab experience in varied socio-economic day care centers, kindergartens, and primary grades. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. 3121. Early Childhood Mathematics and Science. (4). Evaluation and implementation of curriculum, instructional materials, teaching methods and strategies, and organizational principles for teaching math and science to children from four through ten years. Supervised lab experience in varied socio-economic day care centers, kindergartens, and primary grades. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. 3241. Language Arts. (3). Emergence of literacy in children. Includes scope and sequence of skills, assessment, organizational strategies, developmentally appropriate applications, and materials for listening, speaking and writing. Interrelatedness of these skills across the curriculum stressed through holistic activities that teach children to think and communicate. Prior to Fall 1993, ELED 3241 (3 hrs.) and 4242 (2 hrs.) were corequisites. The revised ELED 4242 (6 hrs.) combines the former 3241 and 4242; therefore, ELED 3241 as a separate course is no longer required in the following majors: Human Learning, United States Studies, and Special Education. PREREQUISITE: ICL 3000. 3251. Teaching Methods in the Sciences: Mathematics. (3). Curriculum methods and materials for teaching mathematics with emphasis on problem solving. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. [C]. 3261. Teaching Methods in the Sciences: Science. (3). Principles, techniques and materials for teaching relationships among science, technology, and society. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. 3271. Teaching Methods in the Sciences: Social Studies. (3). Curriculum, methods and materials for teaching social studies and global education to elementary school students. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. 4242. Literacy and Language. (6). Includes scope and sequence of skills assessment, organization strategies, materials and methods of listening, speaking, writing and reading for preschool and primary grade students. Interrelatedness of these skills stressed through activities which teach children of all cultures to think and communicate. Prior to Fall 1993, ELED 3241 (3 hrs.) and 4242 (2 hrs.) were corequisites. The revised ELED 4242 (6 hrs.) combines the former 3241 and 4242; therefore, ELED 3241 as a separate course is no longer required in the following majors: Human Learning, United States Studies, and Special Education. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. [W].4243. Corrective Reading. (2). Diagnostic and prescriptive approaches for assessment and correction of reading and reading- related processes needed for learning. Clinical experience required. PREREQUISITES: ELED 3241, 4242. 4344. Literacy in the Middle Grades. (3). Instructional strategies and assessment procedures relevant to the acquisition of reading, speaking, listening, writing and thinking skills for students in the middle grades. PREREQUISITE: ELED 4242. INSTRUCTION AND CURRICULUM LEADERSHIP (ICL) 0555. Test Taking Skills. (3). (CIED). Educational principles, strategies, and techniques designed to enhance individual test taking skills. Emphasis on preparation for the National Teacher's Exam (NTE). This course will not count in any degree program. (S/U).2601. Clinical Experience. (1). (EDUC). Observation and participation in educational settings; emphasis on how teachers utilize developmental concepts and principles of learning with students. COREQUISITE: LEAD 2010. 3000. Principles of Teaching. (3). (EDUC). Research practices and application of principles of instruction that promote effective teaching and facilitate cognition. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 2111, LEAD 2010. 3501. Classroom Management. (3). (EDUC). Utilization of appropriate knowledge and skills for managing total classroom environment; emphasis on development of skills that facilitate effective teaching through constructive management techniques. 3511. School and Community Relations. (3) (CIED 3511, ELED 4411). Development of strategies for communicating with and involving parents and community members in school activities and student learning. 3600. Applications of Instructional Media. (3). (EDUC). Preparation and use of instructional media in school and training settings, including audiovisuals, television and microcomputer applications in instruction. 3900. Education Honors Program Colloquium. (3). (EDUC). Interdisciplinary colloquium on a broad education theme or topic. The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]PREREQUISITES: junior standing and permission of the Education Honors Council. 3901. Special Problems in Instruction. (1-6). (CIED). Supervised individual investigation in area of instruction. PREREQUISITE: experience as teacher or satisfactory evidence of being qualified to benefit from course. 4107-6107. Workshop in Montessori Instruction. (3). (CIED). Basic principles of how children learn, how they should be taught, what didactic materials should be presented, how the classroom is prepared, and in which sequence didactic materials should be taught using Maria Montessori's philosophies. 4111-6111. Library Materials for Children. (3). (CIED, LIBS 4111). Evaluation and selection of books and related library materials for leisure interests and curriculum needs of elementary school children; extensive reading, introduction to selection criteria, bibliographic aids, authors and illustrators and types of literature and information books. 4121-6121. Library Materials for Young People and Adults. (3). (CIED, LIBS 4121). Evaluation and selection of books and related library materials for leisure interests and curriculum needs of young people and adults from junior high school up; extensive reading, introduction to selection criteria, bibliographic aids, authors and illustrators, and types of literature and information books. 4450. Individualized Instruction Practicum. (1-3). (CIED). Implementation of instruction in individual and small group situations for learners experiencing difficulty in selected basic skills areas; requires design and delivery of tutorial type instruction under guidance of supervisory personnel. Repeatable to maximum of 9 semester hours. (S/U). 4601-6601. Workshop in Curriculum and Instructional Leadership-Environmental Education (3). (CIED). Current,relevant environmental issues with emphasis on resources and appropriate strategies for application of knowledge. 4701-09-6701-09. Workshops in Curriculum and Instructional Leadership. (1-9). (CIED). Various areas of curriculum and elements of instruction explored. Active student participation included. See Schedule of Classes for specific workshop number and topic. Repeatable for maximum of 9 semester hours in any one topic. (S/U). 4715. Clinical/Practicum. (2). (EDUC 4701). Seminars and participation as assistant to classroom teacher; emphasis on teacher roles and on adapting subject discipline to school curriculum. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 2211; LEAD 2010. (S/U). 4761-6761. Aerospace Education in Schools (3). (CIED). Aerospace content and flight experiences. Emphasizes classroom application. 4762-6762. Advanced Aerospace Education in Schools. (3). Theory, principles and practices related to historical development of aerospace; emphasis on both civilian and military uses of aerospace capabilities. Appropriate utilization of aerospace research, concepts, and "spinoffs" for instructional purposes in the classroom at all grade levels. PREREQUISITE: ICL 4761. 4800. Professional Seminar. (3). (CIED). Senior seminar taken concurrently with student teaching which requires students to analyze and seek solutions to problems encountered in current practices and issues in education. Students draw upon each specialization within discipline to integrate and synthesize knowledge and experience in development of their roles as professional educational leaders. COREQUISITE: student teaching. [I]. 4901-4919. Student Teaching. (2-10). Full-time planned and supervised experience in a setting appropriate to student's area of specialization providing opportunities to synthesize knowledge and skills and demonstrate professional competencies in educational setting. PREREQUISITE: approval from Teacher Education Director. COREQUISITE: ICL 4800. (S/U). 4901. Student Teaching in Kindergarten. (EDUC 4901-002). (S/U).4902. Student Teaching in Primary Grades . (S/U). 4903. Student Teaching in Preschool. (S/U).4904. Student Teaching in Grades 1-8. (EDUC 4901-001). (S/U).4905. Student Teaching in Special Education: Modified. (EDUC 4901-003). (S/U).4906. Student Teaching in Special Education: Comprehensive. (S/U).4907. Student Teaching in Secondary School. (EDUC 4901-004). (S/U).4908. Student Teaching in Health. (EDUC 4901-008). (S/U).4909. Student Teaching in Exercise Science and Education. (EDUC 4901-012). (S/U).4910. Student Teaching in Vocational Home Economics. (EDUC 4901-013). (S/U). The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]4950-59-6950-59. Special Topics in Instruction and Curriculum Leadership. (1-3). (CIED). Current topics in areas of curriculum and instruction at all levels. See Schedule of Classes for special topic. 4960. Academic Content for Teaching. (1-9). (ICL 5501). Academic content areas in disciplines supportive of school curriculum. May be repeated to remove deficits for teacher licensure and with change of content. (F, Sp). SPECIAL EDUCATION (SPED) 2000. Introduction to Exceptional Learners. (3). (SPER). Overview of special education including historical and legal perspectives of the field, characteristics of each exceptionality, and educational and community services utilized by exceptional persons and their families. Field experience included. 3002. Independent Study in Special Education. (1-6). (SPER). Opportunity for self-directed study and/or research under supervision. PREREQUISITE: consent of department. 3201. Students with Emotional Problems. (3). (SPER). Study of identification and education of students considered emotionally disturbed. Mild to severe behavioral and psychological characteristics and appropriate educational placement alternatives and practices emphasized. Practicum with students with emotional disturbance included. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. 3401. Students with Learning Disabilities. (3). (SPER). Historical developments and current practices in identification, assessment and instruction of students with learning disabilities. Emphasis on diagnosis, characteristics, and major approaches to instructional methodology. Practicum with students with learning disabilities included. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. 3501. Nature of Students with Mental Retardation. (3). (SPER). Definitions, etiology, and characteristics associated with mental retardation. Examination of evaluation, placement and programming used in educational, prevocational, and transitional settings. Practicum with students with mental retardation included. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. 3601. Students with Physical/Health Impairments. (3). Etiology and characteristics of students having mild to severe physical/health impairments. Emphasis on physical and educational modification used to facilitate learning and developing vocational skills. Accessibility, movement patterns, prosthetic and augmentative communication devices and supportive medical procedures examined. Practicum with students with physical/health impairments included. PREREQUISITE: SPED 2000. NOTE: SPED 3800, 3801, 3802, and 3803 must be taken as corequisites. The prerequisites for this sequence are SPED 2000, 3201, 3401, 3501, 3601; ELED 3251, 4242; and admission to TEP. 3800. Methods, Materials and Curriculum for Learners with Mild Disabilities. (3). (3012). Curriculum, methods, and materials applicable to special educational needs of learners with mild disabilities in primary, intermediate and secondary levels. Emphasis on programming techniques and implementation of appropriate interventions in special education or regular settings. CO/PREREQUISITES: See NOTE above. 3801. Practicum with Learners Having Mild Disabilities. (3). (3013). Planning and implementation of special education methods and materials with learners having mild disabilities. CO/PREREQUISITES: See NOTE above. (S/U). 3802. Assessment of Learners with Disabilities. (3). (3014). Tests and measurements used with learners having disabilities. Focus on diagnostic achievement testing as related to instructional planning. Includes other major assessment instruments and procedures used in evaluation of mild to severe exceptionalities. CO/PREREQUISITES: See NOTE above. 3803. Behavior Management for Learners with Disabilities. (3). (3015). Advanced strategies for managing social behaviors of learners with mild to severe disabilities. Techniques for eliminating maladaptive behaviors, managing aggressive and antisocial students, and teaching appropriate social skills. CO/PREREQUISITES: See NOTE above. 4000. Methods, Materials and Curriculum for Learners with Moderate/Severe Disabilities. (3). Curriculum, methods, and materials applicable to special educational needs of learners with moderate to severe disabilities. Emphasis on educational and vocational skills that facilitate normalization and independent living. PREREQUISITES: SPED 3800, 3801. COREQUISITE: SPED 4001. 4001. Practicum with Learners Having Moderate/Severe Disabilities. (3). (4013). Planning and implementation of special education methods and materials with learners having moderate to severe disabilities. PREREQUISITES: SPED 3800, 3801. COREQUISITE: SPED 4000. (S/U). 4002. Professional Seminar in Special Education. (3). (SPER). Professional development issues including development of communication skills affecting educator interaction with students, parents, and other professionals. Emphasis on addressing concerns and questions arising in student teaching settings. PREREQUISITES: SPED 3800, 3801. CO-REQUISITE: 4901. 4101-10. Special Topics in Special Education. (1-3). Investigation in selected areas of special education. Topics are varied and announced in the Schedule of Classes. The College of Education Course 12:03:31 PM]4801-10-6801-10. Workshop in Special Education. (1-9). For professionals in field of special education. Intensive examination of current methodologies, research, issues and trends in various areas of exceptionalities. See Schedule of Classes for specific workshop title. 4900. Consultation with School/Family/Community. (3). Professional development issues which impact on educator interaction with students, parents and other professionals, including the development of communication and consultation skills. Practicum included. EDUCATIONAL SERVICES (EDSV) 3350. The Adult Learner. (3). (EDUC). Variety of learning patterns and developmental characteristics of adults; emphasis on applications in programs or other activities for adult learners. 4350-6350. Instructional Development for Training. (3). (EDUC). Instructional development techniques and applications in training settings; principles of curriculum development, instructional delivery, and evaluation. 4450-6450. Media Development for Training. (2). (EDUC). Practical preparation of audiovisual material for training, applying instructional design techniques; development of media presentation skills. PREREQUISITE: EDSV 4350 or permission of instructor. 4550-6550. Organization and Management of Training Programs. (3). (EDUC). Development and management of instructional programs in non-school settings; focus on goals, personnel, operational, and budgetary considerations. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110. 4750. Special Problems: Educational Services. (1-3). (EDUC). Independent study and field projects on selected problems, interests, and needs related to educational programs in training settings. 4800. Professional Seminar. (1). (EDUC). Extension of student's professional preparation through a series of required and elective activities: exploration of issues and topics related to professional development. Serves as a capstone experience for synthesizing the student's professional preparation program. COREQUISITE: EDSV 4950. (S/U). 4850. Practicum in Training Settings. (1-3). (EDUC). Opportunities to gain experience in a variety of settings; tailored to interests, needs and career pathways of student. PREREQUISITE: approval by program coordinator. (S/U). 4950. Internship in Training Settings. (3-12). Planned and supervised full-time experience in a training setting appropriate to the student's specialization area; opportunities to synthesize knowledge and skills and demonstrate professional competencies in an appropriate setting. PREREQUISITE; approval in advance by program director. COREQUISITE: EDSV 4800. (S/U). LEADERSHIPPROFESSOR BARBARA K. TOWNSEND, Ed.D., Chair Room 113, Patterson Hall The Department of Leadership offers only graduate level degree programs but does provide courses as part of undergraduate degree programs offered by other departments in the college and university. LEADERSHIP (LEAD) 2010. Schooling in Multicultural Settings. (3). (EDUC 4601). Introduction to roles and responsibilities of teachers in multicultural school settings; evolution of educational policies and practices with special focus on multicultural issues, organization and structure of schools; examination of schools as cultural systems. PREREQUISITE: sophomore standing. 4000-6000. Foundational Studies: Education, Schooling and American Society. (3). Interdisciplinary study of educational policies and practices in American society; role and function of school and teachers; analysis of major problems and issues facing contemporary public education. PREREQUISITE: upper division standing or bachelor's degree. 4400-6400. Leadership and Reform in American Schools. (3). Concepts of leadership in reform context of contemporary social and educational policy; examination of major legal, political, economic, organizational, and philosophical issues; role of teacher-leader explored. PREREQUISITES: senior standing and LEAD 2010. The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]THE HERFF COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING COURSE DESCRIPTIONSCIVIL ENGINEERING (CIVL) ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (ELEC) TECHNOLOGY (TECH) MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (MECH) ENGINEERINGPROFESSOR JOHN D. RAY, Dean Room 201A, Engineering Building ENGINEERING (ENGR) 4001. Engineering Work Experience. (3). Off-campus work experience working on selected projects in coordination with chair or chair's designee in student's major department under direction of practicing engineer. Oral and written presentations may be required. May be repeated as many times as student chooses. PREREQUISITE: chair's and CO-OP director's approvals. NOTE: Students participating in ENGR 4001 are considered to be full-time students for enrollment certification purposes.CIVIL ENGINEERING PROFESSOR MARTIN E. LIPINSKI, P.E., Chair Room 104A, Engineering Building CIVIL ENGINEERING (CIVL) 1101. Civil Engineering Measurements. (3). (2111). Theory of measurements, linear measurements, angles, topographic surveys, and mapping with applications in Civil Engineering; emphasis on individual and group problem solving, techniques of data collection and analysis, and project documentation. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: MATH 1321. 1112. Civil Engineering Analysis. (3). (2112). Microcomputer applications for data analysis, presentation, documentation; emphasis on algorithm design and logic; fundamental numerical analysis; elementary programming. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 1101. 2107. Civil Engineering Computation. (3). (1107). Fortran programming with applications to solution of Civil Engineering problems. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 1112; PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: MATH 2322. 2131. Statics. (3). Analysis of two and three dimensional force systems; centroids and moments of inertia; friction. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: MATH 2321, PHYS 2510, 2003. 3101. Computer Methods In Civil Engineering. (3). Civil engineering applications of fundamental methods of numerical analysis; advanced programming techniques. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 2107. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: MATH 3391. 3113. Stochastic Systems Engineering. (3). (4113). Development and use of probabilistic techniques in civil engineering. Emphasis on applications. Topics include simulation, decision making under uncertainty, and queueing problems. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 2322. 3121. Structural Analysis I. (3). Analysis of statically determinate structures; reactions, shear, and moment; truss analysis; deflections; influence lines and moving loads. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 2131. [C]. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: CIVL 3322. The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]3131. Design of Steel Structures. (3). Current design concepts for structural steel members and their connections. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 3121, 3322. 3137. Civil Engineering Materials. (2). (3135). Properties of aggregates, mix design and use of Portland cement concrete, masonry products and construction, use of wood and timber products in construction, bituminous materials and mixtures and other engineering materials. One lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 3322, 3325. 3140. Environmental Systems Engineering. (3). Fundamentals of environmental engineering systems with emphasis on the integration of the concepts of chemistry, hydraulics, economics, English, and social sciences as they can be applied to benefit mankind. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3180. 3161. Transportation Systems Engineering. (3). Development and function of transportation systems; operational control and characteristics; system coordination, traffic flow and patterns. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 2107, MECH 2332, MATH 2322. 3180. Civil Engineering Hydraulics. (3). Basic principles of incompressible fluid mechanics with emphasis on hydrostatics, conservation of energy and momentum with application on engineering analysis of pipe networks, pumps, and open channel systems. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MECH 2332. COREQUISITE: CIVL 3182. 3181 . Hydrology and Hydraulics. (3). (4148). Quantification of precipitation and runoff, reservoir and channel routing, groundwater, and design of drainage systems and open channels. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3180. 3182. Hydrology and Hydraulics Laboratory. (1). Principles of fluid mechanics, open channel hydraulics, and collection of hydrologic data; fluid instrumentation, measurement techniques, data collection methods, and organization of written reports of experimental investigations. Two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: CIVL 3180. 3322. Mechanics of Materials. (3). (Same as MECH 3322). Analysis of components subjected to tension, compression, bending moment, torque; combined loading; Mohr's stress circle; deflection of beams; simple treatment of column buckling. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 2131. 3325. Mechanics of Materials Laboratory. (1). Materials testing and evaluation. Three laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE or PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3322. 4111. Engineering Economics. (3). Application of economics and decision theory to engineering alternatives in planning, developing, constructing, and managing engineering projects. Three lecture hours per week. 4112-6112. Deterministic Systems Engineering. (3). Employment of optimization techniques to well-defined civil engineering problems. Emphasis on development and applications of mathematical models. Topics include transportation and resource allocation problems. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3101. 4122. Structural Analysis II. (3). (3122). Analytical and numerical solutions for statically indeterminate structures. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 3121, 3322. 4131-6131. Intermediate Steel Design. (3). Design of plate girders and composite beams; moment connections; current code provisions. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 3131. 4135. Reinforced Concrete Design. (3). Strength analysis and design of reinforced concrete members; floor systems; current code provisions. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 3121, 3322. 4136-6136. Intermediate Reinforced Concrete Design. (3). Design of two-way slab systems; column design including length effects; current code provisions. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 4122, 4135. 4140-6140. Environmental Engineering Design. (3). Detailed design of one component of an environmental engineering system with appropriate consideration of the interactions with the other components. Design standards, procedures, and legal constraints will be emphasized. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. 4143-6143. Physical/Chemical Treatment Systems. (3). Basic physical chemical treatment concepts for water and wastewater with laboratory demonstration of laboratory studies. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3140.4144-6144. Biological Wastewater Treatment Systems. (3). Basic biological treatment concepts for wastewater with laboratory demonstration of unit operations as well as derivation of design data through laboratory studies. Two lecture/three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3140. 4151. Soil Mechanics. (3). Properties of soil and rock, including identification and classification, hydraulic properties, consolidation characteristics, and stress deformation-strength relationships. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3322. The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]4152. Applied Soil Mechanics. (3). Subsurface exploration, foundation types, foundation construction, selection of foundation type and basis of design, earth retaining structures, and slope stability. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 4151. 4162-6162. Traffic Engineering. (4). Traits and behavior patterns of road users and their vehicles. Includes traffic signs and signals, pavement markings, hazard delineation, capacity, accidents and parking analysis. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3161. 4163-6163. Airport Planning and Design. (3). Aeronautical demand and air traffic control; airport and runway configuration; capacity and delay analysis, geometric design of runways and taxiways; airport access and parking; ground movements and baggage movements. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3161. 4164-6164. Route Location and Design. (3). Elements of route location and design; emphasis on horizontal and vertical alignment, curvature, gradient and sight distance. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 1101, 3161. 4171. Construction Engineering I. (3). Construction process and project management system; planning, cost estimating, bidding and scheduling construction projects; use of optimization techniques to control schedules and costs; computer applications. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: CIVL 4111. 4172. Construction Engineering II. (3). Application of construction engineering and management methods to estimate, bid, plan, and manage actual engineering construction project in safe, efficient manner. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 4171. 4173. Engineering Law. (3). Sources of law; forms of engineering organizations such as corporations, partnerships, and agencies; principles of contract law; application of construction law to the owner-engineer-contractor relationship, bidding, contracting, construction process, risk, disputes, and dispute resolution. Three lecture hours per week. 4180-6180. Advanced Hydrology and Hydraulics. (3). Current methods and techniques used in hydrologic and hydraulic analysis for the design of water resources projects; watershed hydrology, groundwater hydrology, flood frequency analysis, flood plain management, hydraulic structures, hydraulic machinery, and project feasibility. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 3181. 4190-6190. Water Resources Planning and Design. (3). Application of engineering principles to planning and design of multipurpose water resources projects, various physical components and appurtenances of water resources projects and economic, financial, and social feasibility of various purposes. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: CIVL 3181, 4111 or consent of instructor.4191. Civil Engineering Projects. (1-3). Independent investigation of a Civil Engineering problem in consultation with instructor. May be taken for a maximum of three hours credit toward graduation. PREREQUISITE: consent of instructor. 4193. Senior Seminar. (1). Reports and discussion on engineering history, current developments, ethics, professionalism, registration, engineering organizations, publications, and activities. One lecture hour per week. PREREQUISITE: Senior standing in civil engineering. (S/U) 4199. Civil Engineering Design. (3). Design of a civil engineering system. Establishment of design objectives and criteria; synthesis and computer assisted analysis of alternatives; selection of optimum system design; preparation of detailed system descriptions including design sketches and engineering drawings and reports. Must be taken in student's final semester. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 3603. [W, I]. 4900-10. Special Topics in Civil Engineering.(1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the Schedule of Classes. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING PROFESSOR CARL E. HALFORD, Chair Room 206B, Engineering Building ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (ELEC) 1202. Electrical Engineering Concepts. (3). Introduction to basic electrical engineering concepts and models. DC circuits. Introduction to computers and computer ethics; use of text processors and spreadsheets. COREQUISITE: MATH 1321. 1207. Electrical Engineering Computations. (3). Structured solutions to electrical problems through use of computers. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 1202 or sophomore standing. 2201. Circuit Analysis I. (3). Fundamental properties of electrical circuits; basic concepts and circuit elements; analysis methods The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]and network theorems; analysis of transient circuits using differential equations. COREQUISITES: MATH 3391, ELEC 2203. PREREQUISITES: MATH 2322, ELEC 1202. 2203. Circuit Analysis Laboratory. (1). Introduction to utilization of meters, oscilloscopes, oscillators, power supplies and related test equipment in experimental verification of basic electric circuit theory. Three laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: ELEC 2201. 2222. Digital Circuit Design. (4). Review of number systems and base conversions. Analysis and design of digital circuits. Logic and sequential design. Introduction to microprocessors. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 1207. 2281. Electrical Engineering and Instrumentation Laboratory. (1). Introduction to basic meters, power supplies, and test equipment. Transient responses and AC power measurements. Operational amplifier circuits, bridge circuits, and transducers. Electrical Engineering majors may not use ELEC 2281 to fulfill degree requirements. Three laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: ELEC 2283. 2283. Electrical Engineering and Instrumentation. (3). Analysis of electric circuits, sinusoidal steady state analysis, instrumentation circuits, op amps, and transducers. Electrical Engineering majors may not use ELEC 2283 to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITES: MATH 2322, PHYS 2004, 2520. 3201. Circuit Analysis II. (4). Laplace transform techniques for network analysis, sinusoidal steady-state response of single and three phase circuits, resonant circuits, linear transformers and magnetic coupling, and introduction to filter design. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 2201, MATH 3391. 3202. Transform Methods in Network Analysis. (3). Introduction to transform theory; Fourier Series; application of Fourier, Laplace and Z-transforms to solution of network problems. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 2201, MATH 3391. 3203. Electrical Engineering Computation. (3). Applications of differential equations to modeling physical systems. Solution and interpretation of systems of equations. Computer modeling and interpretation. PREREQUISITES: PHYS 2004, 2520; MATH 2322. 3211. Electronics I. (3). Solid state devices as elements of electronic circuits; linear models and linear operation of these devices emphasized. PREREQUISITES: ELEC 2201, 2203. 3212. Electronics II. (4). Utilization of devices in linear, non-linear, and switching modes of operation. Modeling and simulation of electronic circuits. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: ELEC 2222, 3201, 3211, 3213. 3213. Electronics I Laboratory. (1). Emphasis on laboratory techniques in performance of basic electronic experiments. COREQUISITE: ELEC 3211. 3220. Engineering Computer Systems. (3). Structure and organization of digital computers and associated peripheral devices. Digital representation of data, basic instruction sets, instruction execution and addressing techniques. Subroutines and utility programs, systems programs, and other software oriented toward computer-controlled systems. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 2222. 3221. Matrix Computer Methods in Electrical Engineering. (3). Fundamentals of matrix theory; application of matrix theory and digital computer techniques to the solution of circuit problems. State equations and their application to the solution of systems of differential equations. PREREQUISITE: 2201. 3240. Electromagnetic Field Theory I. (3). Maxwell's equations electrostatics, magnetostatics and time varying electromagnetic fields and waves. PREREQUISITE: MATH 3391. [C]. 4201. Energy Conversion. (3). Energy conversion by electromechanical processes, energy relations in magnetic systems, mathematical modeling of magnetic systems, transformers and electrical machines. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 2201. [C]. 4202-6202. Electrical Power Systems. (3). Investigation of problems associated with transmission of electrical energy. Load- flow studies, and fault analysis by use of symmetrical components. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 3221. 4203. Energy Conversion Laboratory. (1). Fundamental properties associated with testing and utilization of direct current and of alternating current equipment such as motors, generators, alternators and transformers. COREQUISITE: ELEC 4201. 4204-6204. Power Distribution Systems. (3). Distribution of power from transmission systems to users; primary and secondary feeders, voltage regulation; distribution transformers; overhead, underground and network distribution system design; lightning phenomena and protective device coordination. PREREQUISITES: ELEC 4201, 4203. 4212-6212. Electromagnetic Field Theory II. (4). Plane waves. Steady state and transient solutions of transmission line equations. Steady state solutions to waveguide equations. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 3240.4213-6213. Antenna Theory and Design. (4). Theory of operation and design of antennas. Determination of antenna radiation The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]characteristics. Introduction to antenna array theory. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 3240. 4221-6221. Electronics III. (4). Applications of analog and digital electronic circuits. Special purpose circuits and devices. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 3212. 4222-6222. Digital Logic and Computer Design. (3). Applications of digital system design using MSI, LSI, and VLSI circuits. Design of arithmetic logic units, multiple-input controllers, and practical interfacing techniques. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 2222. 4223-6223. Electrical Engineering Instrumentation. (4). Transducers for physical systems. Mechanical, temperature, acoustic, and biomedical transducers. Methods of processing and analyzing data. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 3212. 4230-6230. Data Communication Systems. (3). Data communications in information and computing systems. Analog and digital means of transmitting and controlling information. Organization and requirements of data communication systems including modulation and demodulation, multiplexing, switching, error detection and correction. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 3202. 4231-6231. Communication Theory. (3). Frequency and time domain. Modulation, random signal theory, autocorrelation; noise, communication systems. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 3202. 4232-6232. Discrete Signal Processing. (3). Introduction to discrete-time signal analysis. Includes discrete system concepts, discrete-time Fourier analysis, sampling of continuous-time signals, z-transform, and transform analysis of discrete time systems. Also, includes structures for discrete-time systems and discrete filter design techniques. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 3202. 4233-6233. Satellite Communications. (3). Earth- satellite link model; signal processing and interfacing; modulation techniques for satellite systems; coding and synchronization techniques. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 4230 or 4231. 4235-6235. Random Signal Analysis. (3). Analysis of signals using techniques of probability and statistics. Introduction to probability, random processes and statistics. Discrete signals and analog signals with random components are studied in time, spatial and frequency domains. Autocorrelation, cross-correlation and power spectra are applied to various signals. Effects of filters, both discrete and analog, are determined. PREREQUISlTE: ELEC 3202. 4236-6236. Advanced Studies in Communication Systems. (3). Brief review of signal/system theory, probability and random processes. Noise in modulation systems, M-ary data, spread-spectrum systems, and satellite communications systems, optimum receiver and signal-space concepts, estimation theory and its applications to communications. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 4230 or 4231. 4240-6240. Lasers. (3). Laser theory, analysis, and design. Quantum description of light generation, ray optics, cavity design, Gaussian beams, and optical resonators. Laser survey. 4241-6241. Solid State Physical Electronics. (3). Quantum concepts; statistics; crystal structure; conduction processes in solids; p-n junctions and devices; field-effect devices; charge transfer devices. PREREQUISITES: ELEC 3211, 3240. 4242-6242. Electro-Optics. (3). Classical optics including Gaussian optics, Newtonian optics, and vergence theory. Optical design with aberration concepts, F-numbers, pupils, and stops. Radiometry with respect to flux transfer calculations. Light sources and detectors. 4243-6243. Linear Optical Systems. (3). Review of Fourier techniques for analysis and design of linear systems, extension to 2- dimensional techniques, 2-dimensional transform applied to linear optical systems and optical data processing. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 3202.4251-6251. Control System Engineering. (3). General equations of physical linear systems and their transfer functions. Transient analysis and stability of servo systems. The Bode plot, Nichols chart, Nyquist plot, Routh criterion, root locus methods, introduction to compensation techniques and systems in state space. PREREQUISITES: ELEC 3202, 3221. 4252-6252. Digital Control Systems. (3). Problems and analysis techniques applicable to digital control systems. Prior knowledge of Laplace transforms required; basic knowledge of feedback control theory desirable. PREREQUISITES: ELEC 3202, 3221.4253-6253. Control Systems Laboratory. (1). Investigations of fundamental properties associated with control systems engineering. Laboratory procedures in analysis of control systems, compensating networks, analog and digital computer simulations. COREQUISITE: ELEC 4251 or 4252. 4254-6254. Digital Control Systems Laboratory. (1). Investigations of fundamental properties associated with digital control systems engineering. Laboratory procedures in analysis of digital control systems, compensating networks, digital computer simulations and PLCs. COREQUISITE: ELEC 4252. 4261-6261. Introduction to Network Synthesis. (3). Design, simulation, and realization of active filter networks with emphasis on sensitivities, tolerances, and implementation. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 3202. The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]4270-6270. Introduction to Microprocessors. (4). LSI circuitry, microprocessor architecture, hardware and software, application and system design. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 2222. 4271-6271. Computer Interfacing. (3). Hardware and software aspects of connecting computers to peripherals, including tradeoffs between hardware and software. Connecting CPUs to ROM, RAM, parallel ports and serial ports. Applications of serial and parallel ports. Backplane buses, displays, keyboards, A/D and D/A converters. Linking interface routines to application software. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 2222 or permission of instructor. 4272-6272. Engineering Software. (3). Introduction to hierarchical operating systems; C programming language. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 3221 or permission of instructor. 4274-6274. Software Design with Ada. (3). Introduction to Ada. Detailed software design methodology using structured and object oriented techniques for large systems. Reusable components, Ada Programming Support Environment. PREREQUISITE: knowledge of a structured high level language. 4720-6720. Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (3). (Same as COMP 4720-6720). Fundamentals of programming in LISP. Central ideas of artificial intelligence, including heuristic search, problem solving, slot-and-filler structures, and knowledge representation. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Instructor, ELEC 3221. 4730-6730. Expert Systems. (3). (Same as COMP 4730-6730). Fundamentals of programming in PROLOG, central ideas of expert system development, including knowledge representation, control structures, tools, knowledge acquisition, and knowledge engineering. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor, ELEC 3221. 4280. Electrical Engineering Design. (3). Individual and/or team design projects that require creative application of electrical engineering concepts. Oral and written presentations required. PREREQUISITES: ENGL 3603, ELEC 3202, 3212. [W, I]. 4900-09-6900-09. Special Topics in Electrical Engineering. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in Schedule of Classes. 4991. Electrical Engineering Projects I. (1-3). Independent investigation of problem selected in consultation with instructor; report required. PREREQUISITE: senior standing with a minimum QPA of 2.0 in ELEC courses completed at The University of Memphis.4992. Electrical Engineering Projects II. (1-3). Design, construction and testing of project investigated in ELEC 4991; report required. PREREQUISITE: ELEC 4991 with a minimum QPA of 2.0 in ELEC courses completed at The University of Memphis. 4993. Research Studies. (3). Consultation, reading, laboratory and design work to investigate selected areas of electrical engineering under supervision of faculty member. Formal paper required. Emphasis on laboratory work, design, and scientific writing. [I, W]. ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY PROFESSOR WESTON TERRELL BROOKS, Chair Room 203, Engineering Technology Building TECHNOLOGY (TECH) 1010. Computer Applications In Technology. (3). Instruction on computer operations using BASIC. Application programs including MS-DOS, word processing, and spreadsheets. Hands-on experience with variety of equipment. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. 1210. Pascal Programming. (3). Computer usage in engineering technology; emphasis on use of Pascal programming in solving technical problems. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1010 or BASIC programming and MATH 1213.1411. Introduction to Technology. (1). Emphasis on engineering technology programs as to content and opportunities upon graduation; technical applications, calculations and activities related to various technological disciplines; approaches to basic research techniques and problem solving. 1521. Graphics and Descriptive Geometry. (3). Orthographic projections, sections, pictorials. Drafting with instruments, sketching, and introduction to computer aided drafting. Auxiliary views and revolutions, profiles, vector graphics and developments. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. 1555. History of Architecture. (3). Major trends in architecture from prehistoric times to present. Emphasis on impact of technological and social changes on prevailing architectural styles. The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]1561. Building Assembly. (3). Comprehensive study of building types and building systems; emphasis on the effect of scale, materials, assembly systems and detail methods upon architectural design; manual drafting of details included. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1521. 1611. Introduction to Manufacturing. (3). Development of manufacturing from the Industrial Revolution to computer integrated manufacturing. Emphasis on product evolution from design to manufacture. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week.1711. Manufacturing Processes I. (3). Metal manufacturing processes, including traditional machining, computer numerical control, and thermal metal cutting/joining. Measurement, layout, and inspection techniques as applied to integrated manufacturing systems. Coverage of threads, fasteners, and geometric dimensioning and tolerancing. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. 1811. Electronic Circuit Technology. (3). Fundamental electronic theory and circuit analysis methods. Laboratory emphasis on safety, measurement and confirmation of mathematical solutions. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1213, TECH 1010. 2230. Pulse and Digital Circuits. (4). Analysis and design of pulse and digital electronic circuits using discrete transistors. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2821. 2251. Advanced Programming Techniques. (4). Principles of computer programming applicable to engineering technology using C. Algorithmic problem solving, coding in a structured high level language, subprograms and parameters, control structures, I/O, complex arithmetic, and double precision operations emphasized. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1210. COREQUISITE: TECH 3044. 2261. Data Structures. (4). Application of high speed digital computer to problems associated with storage and retrieval of numeric and non-numeric data in engineering systems. Includes representation and organization for storing of data, searching and sorting techniques, decision tables, and file maintenance techniques. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2251. 2451. Introduction to Surveying. (3). (1451). Surveying practices, calculations, and use of topographical conventions. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1213. 2555. Architectural Design I. (4). Architectural schematics and design presentation. Studio course emphasizing manual drafting techniques. Introduction to wide range of basic techniques, conventions and means used in design fields as well as organization of graphic materials to achieve effective presentation. Principles of graphic communication, including sketching, lettering, perspective, 3-dimensional forms employing light, shade and shadow. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1521.2556. Site and Environmental Planning. (3). Building sites; selection and utilization, including environmental influences. Technical aspects such as zoning, contour lines, parking, ingress/egress, site drainage, building location and landscaping. Two lecture, two laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: TECH 2451. 2561. Computer Applications in Architecture. (3). (3561). Computer aided drafting and design applications to produce computer generated architectural design and working drawings. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: TECH 1010, 1521, 1561. 2821. Solid-State Technology. (3). Theory of solid-state devices with application in power supplies, amplifiers, and other basic electronic circuits. Solid-state diodes and bipolar junction transistors emphasized. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1811. 2831. Advanced Solid-State Technology. (3). Theory of field effect transistors and operational amplifiers. Emphasis on practical applications, including amplifiers, filters, and oscillators. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2821. 3044. Analysis for Engineering Technology. (4). (2944). Application of mathematical, scientific, and engineering principles to solution of technology problems, using a variety of examples from various major areas in Technology. Students analyze and provide acceptable solutions to ascending order of well designed problems using language and techniques or related technological disciplines and selected areas of mathematics, such as algebra, trigonometry, calculus and differential equations. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1321. [C]. 3232. Digital Technology. (3). Numbering systems and codes, logic gates, Boolean algebra, Combinational logic, TTL circuits, and memory devices. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2230. 3233. Microprocessor Technology. (4). Industrial and commercial applications of microcomputers and microprocessors; theory of operation of MSI and LSI logical devices, memory and input/output devices; techniques of microprogramming, testing and maintenance. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3232. The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]3251. Assembly Language Programming. (4). (4251). Investigation of a particular mini-computer from programmer's viewpoint. Includes machine representation of data, instruction formats, machine operation and addressing techniques, input/output and interrupts. Applications include use of minicomputers for numerical control and in sensor based systems. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3233. 3281. Computer Aided Circuit Design. (4). Utilization of commercially available software for electronic circuit documentation, analysis and design. Emphasis on schematic capture, printed-circuit board design, and circuit simulation. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2831. 3386. Occupational Safety. (3). Hazards and safety procedures for general industry and construction. 3401. Strength of Materials. (3). Force systems and their solution; that branch of mechanics dealing with forces and effects of forces acting upon rigid and deformable bodies at rest. Analysis of structural materials. COREQUISITES: TECH 3044, PHYS 2001, 2110.3408. Industrial Materials (4). Material properties and the methods and standards used in testing these properties are introduced for metals, ceramics, polymers, and composites. Emphasis is placed on their mechanical properties and reinforced by testing in the laboratory. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: TECH 3401. 3414. Construction Administration. (3). Ethical practice, social responsibility, licensing, codes, and public regulation of contracting, specification writing and interpretation, functions of architect-engineer and owner, construction contracts, bonding, insurance, indemnification, labor agreements and jurisdictional procedures, joint venture and subcontract relationship. 3421. Manufacturing Processes II. (3). Processes and techniques used to fabricate industrial materials into useful products. Techniques covered include casting and molding, forming, separating, conditioning, assembling, finishing, and process design and control. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1711. 3440. Project Cost Evaluation. (3). Industrial as well as personal financial situations and how they are affected by interest rates and "Time Value" of money. Investigation of economic alternatives including applications of existing formulas, techniques, and methods.3451. Construction Surveying Methods. (3). Methods, techniques and formulas necessary to establish controlling points at any construction site. Both office and field procedures required to locate centerlines and bounds of structures. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2451. 3462. Industrial Statistics. (3). Procedures for collecting, describing, presenting and statistically analyzing industrial data. Basic probability theory. Hypothesis testing and basic concepts of analysis of variance. Introduction to Taguchi methods. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1211 or higher. 3470. Strategic Planning for Technology. (3). Strategic planning methods for examination, implementation, and integration of technological developments to facilitate solutions to productivity and quality issues in both manufacturing and service industries. 3471. Structural Design I. (3). Fundamentals of structural design and analysis of steel and timber buildings and building components. PREREQUISITES: MATH 1321, TECH 3401, 3408. 3472. Structural Design II. (3). Fundamentals of structural design and analysis of concrete buildings and building components. PREREQUISITES: MATH 1321, TECH 3401, 3408. 3520. Architectural Design II. (4). Basic design concepts and methods as applied to building types, design, construction, and systems for units of contemporary architecture. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: TECH 1561, 2555, 2561.3531. Environmental Control Systems. (3). Studies in environmental technologies in architecture; mechanical systems, plumbing, electrical and energy conservation. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2001, 2110. 3562. Advanced Computer Applications in Design. (3). Advanced concepts of computer generated drawings including LISP programming, screen menu and keyboard macro modification, utilization of third party software for special applications, icon creation, 3-dimensional wire mesh, shading, slide presentation, and data exchange to other software. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2561 or equivalent. 3573. Dynamics and Design for Automation. (3). Analysis of rectilinear and curvilinear motion; kinematic analysis of mechanisms; mechanical, hydraulic, and pneumatic systems; product design techniques as applied to integrated manufacturing systems. Laboratory exercises include applications of programmable logic controllers and fluid power circuits. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: TECH 3044, 3401. 3691. Construction Estimating. (3). Fundamentals of commercial and light frame estimating. Emphasis given to conducting a The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]quantity survey, including unit and overhead costs. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3520. 3811. Electronics Communications. (3). Principles of noise, oscillators, modulation and vacuum tube power amplifiers with associated circuitry. Transmission line and antenna theory. Emphasis on operating frequencies up to UHF. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2831. 3812. Advanced Electronic Communications Technology. (3). (4811 ). Concepts, systems and practical applications in generation, transmission and detection of aural, data and visual information in analog and digital form. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3811. 3821. Industrial Electronics. (3). Electronic circuits and systems in modern industry. Principles of open and closed loop control systems. Theory and application of devices and thyristors such as unijunction transistors, silicon controlled rectifiers, diacs and triacs. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: TECH 2831, 3044. 3822. Programmable Logic Controllers. (4). Theory and operation of programmable logic controllers. Emphasis on practical industrial applications and programming techniques. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3821. COREQUISITE: TECH 3841. 3841. Electrical Power and Motor Control. (3). Generation and utilization of AC and DC electrical power. Applications and operating characteristics of motors, generators and transformers with emphasis on control of motors. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3821. COREQUISITE: TECH 3822. 3940. Analytic Approaches to Public Fire Protection. (3). Systems analysis and its use and limitations in fire protection and other problem areas. Illustrated with case studies and models using the systems approach to fire suppression and prevention. PREREQUISITE: admission restricted to students seeking B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology. [C]. 3942. Fire Related Human Factors. (3). Dynamics of human behavior in fire incidents related to building design, codes and ordinances, and other fire prevention practices. PREREQUISITE: admission restricted to students seeking B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology. 3944. Fire Protection Structure and Systems Design. (3). Design principles involved in protection of structure from fire involvement. Empirical tests and prediction procedures. Control detection, and suppression system design practices. Fundamentals of hydraulic design of sprinkler and water spray systems with recent innovations. PREREQUISITE: admission restricted to students seeking B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology. 3945. Incendiary Fire Analysis and Investigation. (3). Procedures and techniques for collection, comparison, and analysis of physical evidence related to fire origin; principles of evidence of ignition phenomenon and propagation variables; legislative, economic, psychological, and sociological variables of incendiary fire, role of insurance and government programs. PREREQUISITE: students of B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology program. 3946. Fire Dynamics. (3). Fire propagation phenomenon in both fuel and air regulated phases; variables in pre- and post- flashover fire development; geometric, material, gaseous, fluid flow, and thermodynamic parameters; compartment and building fire models. PREREQUISITE: student of B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology program. 3947. Applications of Fire Research. (3). Fire research and its application; transfer and implications of available research results for fire prevention and protection programs; national and international studies and research developments. PREREQUISITE: student of B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology program. 3948 Managerial Issues in Hazardous Materials. (3). Examination of federal regulatory issues, hazard identification and vulnerability analysis, multi-agency contingency planning, response personnel, multi-agency response resources and systems. Discussion of agency policies, public education and emergency information systems, health and safety issues, command post dynamics, strategic and tactical considerations, recovery and termination procedures. PREREQUISITE: enrollment in B.P.S. degree in Fire Administration or Fire Prevention Technology program. 4234. Microprocessor Interfacing Techniques. (4). Application of microprocessors to equipment; emphasis on interface problems. Techniques employing conventional Logic devices as well as LSI components. Testing and maintenance techniques of equipment using microprocessor based design. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3233. 4235. Microcomputer Systems. (4). Design and construction of complete microcomputer system including microprocessor, RAM, EPROM, input-output devices, and assembly language operating system. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4234. [I]. 4261-6261. C++ Programming. (4). Applications of the C++ programming language to problems from selected areas of engineering technology. Includes data collecting, modeling techniques, constraints, program development and validation, and interfacing with peripherals and machine language. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2261. COREQUISITE: TECH 3251. The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]4272-6272. Operating Systems and Data Communications. (4). Introduction to operating system principles and data communications; includes networking of computers. Emphasis on hardware and software interaction in overall system. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: TECH 3233, 3251. 4381. Principles of Supervision. (3). Functions of supervisory personnel. 4460. Work Design, Improvement and Measurement. (3). Elimination of waste in production or service environment. Continuous improvement and Single- Minute Exchange of Die (SMED) systems. Fundamentals of human factors and ergonomics. Work measurement by stop-watch, standard data, basic motion times and work sampling. 4462. Statistical Quality Control. (3). Statistical methods for analyzing quality problems including control charts for variables and attributes and industrial sampling. Defect prevention using the Poka-Yoke System. Computer applications to quality assurance. [C].4464. Production Control Systems. (3). Functions of controlling production using Manufacturing Resource Planning (MRP II) and Just-in-Time (JIT) techniques. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4460. 4466. Facility Design. (3). Integrated approach to design and layout of industrial facility with respect to workstation location and material handling. Design considerations include project planning, costs, automation, CAD/CAM, quality, work measurement, safety, materials and processes, production control and tool design. Use of simulation software. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4464. 4472-6472. Computer Aided Drafting and Design. (3). Overview of CADD technology, hardware and software options, two and three dimensional principles, and applications to produce computer generated design and working drawings. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1521 or equivalent. 4474-6474. Automation and Robotics. (3). (4476). Concepts of factory automation and industrial robotics. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1010 or 1210. 4476-6476. Computer Aided Manufacturing. (3). (4474). Computer numerical control programming by manual data input and distributed numerical control by computer assistance. System assessment of CNC machines and components for integrated manufacturing environment. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3281 or 4472. 4510-6510. Construction Planning and Scheduling. (3). Principles of planning, scheduling, organizing, and controlling construction projects. Studies in critical path method (CPM) and PERT, with resource leveling and financial scheduling. Computer applications in CPM and PERT emphasized. 4512. Soil Technology in Construction. (3). Soil technology as applied to construction field. Fundamental properties of soils with application to foundations, highways, retaining walls and slope stability. Relationship between soil characteristics and geologic formations. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: PHYS 2001, 2110. 4515. Architectural Design III. (4). Design concepts and methods as related to mass horizontal and vertical architectural development. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: TECH 3471, 3520. 4520-6520. Construction Methods and Equipment. (3). Theory and practice of construction operations, equipment utilization, construction methods, analysis of costs, crew and equipment. 4535-6535. Project Manual and Codes. (3). Bidding and contractual documents, including technical specifications and their effect on design and practice of architecture; examination of general and local codes and regulations that influence design and construction of buildings. PREREQUISITE: senior status. 4571. Tool Design. (3). Design of tooling systems for the integrated manufacturing environment; emphasis on geometric dimensioning and tolerancing, fast change-over techniques, and achieving world class quality through tooling design. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: TECH 3421, 4472. 4600. Contract and Construction Drawings. (4). Techniques and methods of portraying information needed to conform to document design decisions. Development of building systems, structural and construction details required to communicate clearly and graphically a project's bidding, contracting, and construction requirements. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: TECH 3562 or equivalent, TECH 4515. 4615. Architectural Design IV. (4). Design concepts and methods relating to horizontal and vertical development. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4515. COREQUISITES: TECH 4535, 4600. 4821. Microwave Technology. (4). Generation and transmission of energy at frequencies above 300 megahertz, emphasizing techniques and equipment which contrast sharply with those at lower frequencies. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3811. 4823. Advanced Programmable Logic Controllers. (3). Advanced applications of programmable logic controllers, including The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]analog I/O techniques and computer interfacing. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: TECH 3822, 3841. 4841. Video Communications. (3). Theory and application of technical equipment for generation, transmission, and reception of video signals, both closed circuit and broadcast. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3811. 4944. Problems in Technology. (3). Study and research in specific area culminating in an integrating experience through individual and/or group projects and technical reports. PREREQUISITE: seniors within two semesters of graduation [W, I]. 4950-6950. Product Safety Management. (3). Study of modern concepts of accident prevention by means of safety analysis. Analyses of responsibilities and requirements of management in producing safe consumer products. Emphasis on electrical and mechanical hazards. 4990-4998. Engineering Technology Topics. (1-3). Varied topics announced in the Schedule of Classes. May be repeated by permission for a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING PROFESSOR EDWARD H. PERRY, Chair Room 312A, Engineering Building MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (MECH) 1307. Mechanical Engineering Computing. (3). Emphasis on computer solutions of mechanical engineering problems. 2308. Engineering Graphics. (3).(1308). Sketching and drafting techniques as used in engineering practice, elements of descriptive geometry, introduction to CAD. Two lecture/three laboratory hours per week. 2332. Dynamics. (3). Kinematics and kinetics of particles and rigid bodies. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 2131. 3301. Engineering Analysis. (3). Mechanical Engineering applications of first and second order ordinary differential equations, Laplace transforms, and Fourier series to problems in the areas of heat transfer, vibrations, and fluid mechanics. PREREQUISITE: MATH 3391. 3310. Introduction to Thermal Systems. (3). Introduction to First and Second Laws of Thermodynamics and to conduction, convection, and radiation heat transfer with particular emphasis on engineering applications. Mechanical Engineering majors may not use MECH 3310 to fulfill B.S.M.E. degree requirements. PREREQUISITES: MATH 2322, PHYS 2004, 2520. 3311. Engineering Thermodynamics I. (3). Laws of thermodynamics and their applications to engineering problems. PREREQUISITES: MATH 2322; PHYS 2004, 2520. 3312. Engineering Thermodynamics II. (3). Applications of thermodynamics laws; emphasis on real gases, real gas mixtures, combustion, gas cycles and vapor cycles. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3311, CHEM 1122, 1132. 3320. Engineering Materials. (3). (3361). Nature of six main classes of materials: metals, polymers and elastomers, ceramics and glasses, semiconductors, superconductors and composites. Mechanical, thermal, electrical and electronic, magnetic and optical properties of materials. Environmental effects on performance of materials: creep, corrosion, oxidation. Methodology for selection of materials for named applications. PREREQUISITES: CHEM 1122, 1132. COREQUISITE: PHYS 2004, 2520. 3321. Kinematics and Dynamics of Machines. (3). Velocity and acceleration analysis of linkages and mechanisms. Force analysis of linkages and mechanisms and machinery such as IC engines. Gyroscopic forces and moment-of-inertia determination. Dynamic balance of rotors and reciprocating masses. PREREQUISITES: MECH 2332, 3341; MATH 3391. 3322. Mechanics of Materials. (3). (Same as CIVL 3322). Analysis of components subjected to tension, compression, bending moment, torque; combined loading; Mohr's stress circle; deflection of beams; simple treatment of column buckling. PREREQUISITE: CIVL 2131. 3323. Mechanical Design and Analysis. (3). Methodology and practice in designing machine components by integrating principles from mechanics of materials, failure theory, fatigue, economics and other principles. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3322. 3325. Materials Laboratory. (1). Materials testing and evaluation. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320; PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: MECH 3322. 3331. Mechanics of Fluids. (3). Statics and dynamics of fluids; applications to measurement of properties of water and air flows. PREREQUISITE: MECH 2332, 3311. The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]3335. Fluids Laboratory. (1). Principles of fluid mechanics are demonstrated and verified. Familiarization with instrumentation and techniques in organizing and reporting results of experimental investigations. Three laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: MECH 3331. 3341. Mechanical Engineering Analysis. (3). Engineering methods, classical analysis, computer techniques, and their interactions with mechanical engineering problems. COREQUISITE: MATH 3391. [C]. 4300. Senior Seminar. (1). Ethics and professionalism, literature searching, proposal writing, technical paper presentations and other selected topics. Oral and written reports required. Taking the EIT exam is recommended. PREREQUISITE: senior status or consent of instructor. 4305-6305. Intermediate Fluid Mechanics. (3). Continuation of MECH 3331; introduction to various topics in advanced fluid mechanics, including: flow over immersed bodies; open channel hydraulics; compressible fluid flow; turbomachinery; measurements in fluid mechanics; and, inviscid flow. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3331. 4309-6309. Gas Dynamics. (3). Concepts in compressible flow, emphasis on real and ideal gas dynamic effects and non- equilibrium flow; application of numerical methods. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3312, 3331. 4311. Heat Transfer I. (3). Fundamentals of conduction, convection, and radiation heat transfer with emphasis on conduction and convection. Introduction to heat exchanger design. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3312, 3331, 3341. 4312. Power Generation. (3). Application of principles of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics and heat transfer to conversion of useful energy. Includes terrestrial and thermodynamic limitations, power plants, nuclear energy, solar energy, and direct energy conversion. Technical report writing. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3312. [W]. 4313-6313. Heat Transfer II. (3). Principles of boiling, condensing, and radiation heat transfer. Fundamentals of heat exchanger design. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4311. 4314. Fluid/Thermal Systems Design. (4). Design of piping systems; pipe size selection using economic; fluid meter selection; prime movers and piping systems; heat exchanger analysis, selection and design; economics of heat exchanger selection; analysis of fluid/thermal components as a system. Group project required. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4311. [I]. 4315-6315. Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning. (3). Psychrometric analyses, heating and cooling loads of buildings and analyses of air conditioning systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4311. 4320. Mechanics of Materials II. (3). Stress-strain analyses of thin-walled cylinders and spheres, springs, laterally-loaded struts, struts with initial curvature, rotating disks and cylinders; plastic yielding of beams and shafts; introduction to energy methods. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322. 4322. Mechanical Design. (3). Analytical treatment of methods used in design process including creativity, probability, and optimization as applied to design process, from concept through preliminary design to final design. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3323. 4323. Machine Design. (4). System design concepts applied to machine components; integration of these components into an overall system. Design project assignments. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4322. 4324-6324. Computer Methods in Design. (3). Application of computer aided drafting packages to design of mechanical components and systems. Introduction to fundamental concepts and principles of finite element methods and design optimization. Design project assignments using computer-aided engineering software for analysis and design solution. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3323, 3341. 4325-6325. Advanced Mechanics of Materials. (3). Beams on elastic foundations, experimental stress analysis, torsion of non- circular sections, curved beam theory, unsymmetrical bending. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3322. 4326-6326. Biomedical Systems Analysis- Mechanical. (3). Introduction to concepts used in analyzing living systems. Simulation of body functions with mechanical and computer models. Familiarization with design of mechanical bioengineering devices such as heart valves, heart-lung machines, renal dialysis machines. PREREQUISITES: MECH 2332, 3322. 4330-6330. Introduction to Composite Materials. (3). Introduction to fiber reinforced composite materials. Includes mechanical behavior, strength, design methodology, and implementation of computer aided design. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322, 3341. 4331. Turbomachinery. (3). Basic principles of fluid mechanics and thermodynamics with application to rotating devices. Ideal and actual operating characteristics of pumps, fans, turbines and compressors. Constraints on design of real systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3331. The Herff College of Engineering Course 12:03:34 PM]4333-6333. Aerospace Propulsion Systems. (3). Fundamentals of airbreathing and rocket propulsion devices. Principles of combustion thermodynamics, gas turbine operation, solid and liquid propellants, performance evaluation, and atmospheric and space mission propulsion requirements. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3331. 4335. Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer Laboratory. (1). Instrumentation and measurement techniques used in thermodynamics and heat transfer studies. Experimental verification of basic principles with emphasis on organizing and reporting of results. Three laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITE: MECH 4311. 4337-6337. Internal Combustion Engines. (3). Principles of Otto and Diesel cycle engines. Effects of various fuels and fuel delivery systems, air induction systems, ignition systems, and pollution control techniques on engine performance. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3312, 3331. 4340-6340. Manufacturing Processes. (3). Introduction to manufacturing processes: fundamentals of mechanical behavior of materials, manufacturing properties of materials; casting, bulk deformation, sheetmetal forming, material removal processes; processing of polymers, ceramics and glasses, composite materials; powder metallurgy; fastening and joining processes; nontraditional manufacturing processes; economics of integrated design and manufacturing; recent developments in manufacturing. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322. 4344. Mechanical Controls. (3). Fundamental classical control concepts. Modeling of linear mechanical control systems. Transient, accuracy and performance analyses and design of control systems using root locus sketch, Nyquist diagrams and Bode plots. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3321. 4345-6345. Design of Mechanisms. (3). Graphical and analytical mechanism synthesis techniques for path generation, function generation, rigid body guidance and optimization of force transmission characteristics. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3321, 4322. 4346-6346. Advanced Mechanical Controls. (3). Advanced design and modeling of mechanical control systems; review of digital and optimal control systems and simulation of control systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4344. 4350-6350. Mechanics for Biomedical Engineers. (4). Analyses of the bone and joint structure of the body related to the basic mechanical equations and properties. Mathematical modeling of bone structure, mechanical properties, static loading, dynamic loading, fatigue, wear, corrosion. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322. 4360. Selection of Engineering Materials. (3). Detailed study of main classes of materials and their properties and uses; design criteria for various failure modes and selected environment case studies, technical tutorials and design exercises. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322. 4369. Process Heat Transfer. (3). Engineering concepts and fundamental principles dealing with single and two phase fluid dynamic and heat transfer to design and analysis of process heat transfer equipment. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4311. 4371-6371. Mechanical Vibrations. (3). Kinematics of harmonic and non-harmonic vibrations; system of one and several degrees of freedom, free and forced vibrations; self-excited vibrations. PREREQUISITES: MATH 3391; MECH 3321, 3341. 4391. Mechanical Engineering Projects. (1-3). Independent investigation of mechanical engineering problems in consultation with instructor. PREREQUISITE: senior standing. The Loewenberg School of Nursing Course 12:03:34 PM]THE LOEWENBERG SCHOOL OF NURSING COURSE DESCRIPTIONS NURSING (NURS) *NOTE: In the repetition of NURS courses for the purpose of achieving a satisfactory grade, the theory and corequisite practicum courses are treated as one course. Both must be taken to improve the grade in either or both of the two courses. A maximum of two nursing courses may be repeated. A student who drops or withdraws from a nursing course may re-enter that course only once. Additional fees are charged for some Nursing courses. See the Schedule of Classes. 2217. Foundations of Nursing. (3). (2010). Introduction to nursing process and concepts basic to practice of professional nursing. Theory focus on development of nursing knowledge necessary for promotion of health and prevention of illness in individual. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: admission to the Loewenberg School of Nursing. COREQUISITES: NURS 2218, *2219, 2220, 3000, 3101, 3400; HPER 1100. 2218. Integrative Skills I. (1). (2010). Laboratory experiences focus on development of competency in performing basic clinical nursing procedures. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: admission to the Loewenberg School of Nursing. COREQUISITES: NURS 2217, 2219, 2220, 3000, 3101, 3400; HPER 1100. (S/U). 2219. Foundations of Nursing Practicum. (2). (2010 lab). Clinical experiences include provision of direct care of adult clients in secondary care and/or extended care settings. Six clinical laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: admission to the Loewenberg School of Nursing. COREQUISITES: NURS *2217, 2218, 2220, 3000, 3101, 3400; HPER 1100. (S/U). 2220. Dosage Calculation. (1). Introduction to systems of measurement used in medication administration. Focus on ability to determine safe dosages for all types of medications and intravenous fluids. One lecture hour per week. PREREQUISITES: Math Requirement; CHEM 1101, 1102. 3000. Pharmacology in Nursing. (3). Basic pharmacology of drugs in the major classifications; emphasis on action of a prototype on organ systems, its mechanisms of action, pharmacokinetics, toxicology and clinically important interactions with other drugs. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 1751/1752, 1761/1762, 1451/1452, CHEM 1101, 1102. 3001. Individualized Study. (1-3). Directed individualized approach to increase nursing knowledge, understanding, and skills according to student's needs and level objectives. Assessment of student determines content areas and clinical experience needed. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. Credit not applied toward B.S.N. degree.3003. Computers and Nursing. (3). Introduction to history of computers and information systems; emphasis on nursing practice and patient care applications; social, ethical, and legal issues; use and evaluation of software relevant to nursing; beginning programming. 3101. Health Assessment. (3). Comprehensive health assessment of clients across life span. Expands interviewing and history taking. Health assessment skills emphasized. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. COREQUISITES: NURS 2217, 2218, 2219. 3117. Adult Health Nursing. (2). (3010). Application of nursing process to adults experiencing problems of adaptation requiring nursing intervention in acute and/or chronic illness. Role of nurse in health promotion, restoration, and rehabilitation is emphasized. Two lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: NURS 2217, 2218, 2219, 2220, 3000, 3101, 3400. COREQUISITES: NURS 3118, *3119. 3118. Integrative Skills II. (1). (3010). Laboratory experiences focus on development of competency in performing complex clinical nursing procedures. Three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: NURS 2217, 2218, 2219, 2220, 3000, 3101, 3400. COREQUISITES: NURS 3117, 3119. (S/U). 3119. Adult Health Nursing Practicum. (2). (3010 lab). Clinical experiences include provision of direct care of adult clients and their families in secondary and rehabilitative care settings. Six clinical hours per week. PREREQUISITES: NURS 2217, 2218, 2219, 2220, 3000, 3101, 3400. COREQUISITES: NURS *3117, 3118. (S/U). 3127. Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing. (2). (3040). Theory and principles of nursing practice with clients experiencing psychosocial problems of adaptation. Two lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: NURS 2117, 2118, The Loewenberg School of Nursing Course 12:03:34 PM]2119, 2220, 3000, 3101, 3400. COREQUISITE: *NURS 3129. 3129. Psychiatric Mental Health Nursing Practicum. (3). (3040 lab). Use of nursing process for clinical application of theories and principles of psychiatric mental health nursing to acutely ill clients. Nine clinical laboratory hours per week in health care setting. PREREQUISITES: NURS 2117, 2118, 2119, 2220, 3000, 3101, 3400. COREQUISITE: *NURS 3127. (S/U). 3217. Nursing Care of the Expanding Family. (2). (3030). Theory and principles of nursing practice with childbearing individuals and families to assist perinatal clients and families with problems of adaptation. Two lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: NURS 2117, 2118, 2119, 2220, 3000, 3101, 3400. COREQUISITE: *NURS 3219. 3219. Nursing Care of Expanding Family Practicum. (3). (3030 lab). Use of nursing process for clinical application of theories and principles of nursing and family theory to childbearing families. Focus on health promotion, prevention and adaptation. Nine clinical laboratory hours per week in health care setting. PREREQUISITES: NURS 2117, 2118, 2119, 2220, 3000, 3101, 3400. COREQUISITE: *NURS 3217. (S/U). 3227. Child Health Nursing. (2). (3020). Theory and principles of nursing practice with children experiencing health problems requiring short-term and/or long-term intervention. Expansion of nursing role to include health maintenance and restoration of health. Two lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: NURS *3117, 3118, 3119. COREQUISITE: *NURS 3229. 3229. Child Health Nursing Practicum. (3). (3020 lab). Use of nursing process for clinical application of theories and principles of nursing of children and their families. Focus on health promotion, prevention, and adaptation. Nine clinical laboratory hours per week in health care setting. PREREQUISITES: NURS *3117, 3118, 3119. COREQUISITE: *NURS 3227. (S/U). 3250. Professional Nursing Perspectives. (3). (3050). Emphasizes contemporary nursing practice. Learning experiences structured to validate previous learning and provide means of progression in the curriculum. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: admission to the Loewenberg School of Nursing as a Registered Nurse student.3317. Perioperative Nursing (1). Theoretical foundation for perioperative practice during the intraoperative phase. PREREQUISITES: NURS *3117, 3118, 3119. COREQUISITE: NURS 3319. 3319. Perioperative Nursing Practicum (2). Application of perioperative nursing process with clinical practice in both the scrub/circulating nursing roles. Six clinical laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: NURS *3117, 3118, 3119. COREQUISITE: NURS 3317. 3400. Clinical Pathophysiology. (3). Overview of specific interruptions in normal function of selected human physiological systems, including disease processes, their manifestations, and therapeutic principles underlying treatment. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: BIOL 1751/1752, 1761/1762, 1451/1452, CHEM 1101/1102.4110. Nursing Research. (3). Overview of nursing research. Components of research studied. Focus on critiques of existing studies. Emphasis on interpretation and application of research findings. PREREQUISITES: NURS 3117, 3118, 3119, 3127, 3129, 3217, 3219, 3227, 3229. For RN students: NURS 3250. EDPR 4541 or PSYC 3110 or SOCI 3311. [W] 4117. Advanced Adult Health Nursing. (2). (4010). Application of nursing process with adult clients, families, and groups experiencing complex problems of adaptation. Role of nurse expanded to include health maintenance, restoration, and rehabilitation of clients experiencing problems of adaptation requiring higher acuity levels of care. Two lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: NURS 3117, 3118, 3119, 3127, 3129, 3217, 3219, 3227, 3229. COREQUISITE: *NURS 4119. 4119. Advanced Adult Health Nursing Practicum. (3). (4010 lab). Clinical experiences include direct care to adult clients, families, and groups in high acuity care settings. Nine laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: NURS 3117, 3118, 3119, 3127, 3129, 3217, 3219, 3227, 3229. COREQUISITE: *NURS 4117. (S/U). 4120. Contemporary Issues and Trends in Nursing and Health Care. (3). Emphasis on factors which influence nursing and health care. Promotes integration and synthesis of knowledge from previous nursing and general education courses to explore societal and political components that affect delivery of health care. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: NURS 3117, 3118, 3119, 3127, 3129, 3217, 3219, 3227, 3229. For RN students: NURS 3250. 4127. Community Health Nursing. (3). (4020). Overview of community based health care delivery system at local, state, and national levels. Focuses on theories and principles of nursing care of communities and aggregates in The Loewenberg School of Nursing Course 12:03:34 PM]public health and home health care settings. Expands nursing role to coordinator of care. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITES: NURS 3117, 3118, 3119, 3127, 3129, 3217, 3219, 3227, 3229. COREQUISITE: *NURS 4129. 4129. Community Health Nursing Practicum. (2-3). (4020). Use of nursing and public health theories and principles to provide nursing care to families and communities. Nine laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITES: NURS 3117, 3118, 3119, 3127, 3129, 3217, 3219, 3227, 3229. COREQUISITE: *NURS 4127 (S/U). 4227. Nursing Leadership and Management. (3). (4100). Theories of leadership, management, and change basic to functioning within economic, social and political realities of health care settings/systems. Organizational assessment, decision making, collaboration, coordination, and evaluation emphasized. PREREQUISITES: NURS 4117, 4119. COREQUISITE: *NURS 4229. 4229. Nursing Leadership and Management Practicum. (5). (4030). Precepted experience using nursing leadership management theories and principles to coordinate nursing care of groups of patients. Fifteen laboratory hours per week in hospital setting. PREREQUISITES: NURS 4117, 4119. COREQUISITE: *NURS 4227. (S/U). 4335. Ethical Dialogs. (3). Bioethical principles used to analyze ethical health care problems of the individuals, providers of care and coordinators of care. Allocation of scarce health resources examined in contexts of delivery of care, institutional management and policy development. PREREQUISITE: all provider courses or permission of faculty.4300-09. Special Topics in Nursing. (3). Topics are varied and announced in the Schedule of Classes. 4800. Independent Study. (1-3). Directed study and/or research in selected areas of nursing. May be repeated for maximum of 7 semester hours of credit. PREREQUISITE: senior standing and permission of faculty. University College Course 12:03:36 PM]UNIVERSITY COLLEGE COURSE DESCRIPTIONS (UNIV)1610. Natural Science I. (4). Development of universe; origin of elements and species; development of natural laws and their influence on cultural development of humankind. Potentials and limitations of science explored. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. [G]. 1611. Natural Science II. (4). Concept of origin of universe and development of scientific thought; ways in which scientists develop knowledge of distant past; degrees of certainty possible to scientific investigation. Possible conflicts between scientific thinking and human institutions explored. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: UNIV 1610. [G]. THEMATIC STUDIES (UNIV) 3500-3599. Thematic Studies. (3-9). Interdisciplinary seminars about significant problems, themes, or ideas. Specific course descriptions each semester in "Addenda" section of Schedule of Classes. 3509. Connections. (6). [W].3527. Making the Humane City. (6). [W].3531. American Experience: Images and Narrative. (3). Organized around "images" and "narratives". Utilizes a variety of cultural materials to enhance appreciation of the peoples and experiences that define the term "American".3541. American Experience: Language and Objects. (3). Organized around "language" and "objects". Utilizes a variety of cultural materials to enhance appreciation of American language and American perceptions of objects. 3580. Hebrew and Greek Legacy. (3). Interdisciplinary examination of salient ideas, values, and traditions of ancient Hebraic and Greek cultures, with emphasis on those ideas and values that have most significantly influenced the modern world. Understanding of ideas and values enhanced through comparison with selected non-Western traditions. [G]. 3581. Faith, Reason, and Imagination. (3). Interdisciplinary examination of religious, rationalist, and aesthetic viewpoints as distinctive ways of understanding what is fundamental to human experience. Exploration of historical development of each of these modes of understanding and examination of tensions that exist among them in modern world. [G]. 4500-4599. Advanced Thematic Studies. (3-9). Advanced interdisciplinary seminars about significant problems, themes, or ideas. Specific course descriptions each semester in "Addenda" section of Schedule of Classes. 4529. Character and Society in Contemporary America. (6). (3529). [W, I]. INDIVIDUALIZED STUDIES (UNIV) 1005. Directed Study. (1-3). Directed study at introductory level. Student may seek permission to study under faculty direction in an area not routinely taught. This course may be repeated for maximum credit of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: approval of Out-of-Class Learning and Baccalaureate Contracts. 2110. Field Experience. (1-6). Supervised on-site training in basic skills. May be repeated up to a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: Approval of Out-of-Class Learning and Baccalaureate Contracts. (S/U). 2304. Gender and Society. (3). Sources, development, and effect of gender hierarchy on self-concept, quality of life, and ability to effect social change; subordination of women of different classes, races, and ethnicities across nationalities, cultures, and centuries; symbol, myth, and psychology in human development and gender divisions of power within historical struggle for control of world's wealth. [G]. 2400. Professional Responsibility. (3). Introduction to paralegal profession; organization of legal institutions; role of attorneys and paralegals in legal system; regulation, legal ethics, and professional responsibility. 2410. Introduction to Law. (3). (UNIV, ADOS, OFAD 2210). Introduction to American substantive and procedural law; origins and applications of legal theories and processes; case law analysis. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 1101. University College Course 12:03:36 PM]2420. Legal Research and Writing I. (3). (UNIV, ADOS, OFAD 2213). Research methods using legal encyclopedias, annotations, form books, reporters, codes, regulations, digests, and citators. Style of legal memorandum and uniform citation. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 1101. 2850. Religions of Abraham: Judaism, Christianity, Islam. (3). Survey of development of several Near Eastern religious traditions; consideration of intellectual relationships among them. [G]. 2860. Historical/Philosophical Perspectives on Cultural Confrontations. (3). Interdisciplinary examination of causes and effects of conflicts between and within cultures. Examines notion of cultural unity, issues of cultural identify, and categories used to construct cultural positions. European, African, Asian, and Native-American cultures studied in order to assess historical and philosophical viewpoints that influence understandings of contemporary society. [G].3200. Aviation Administration. (3). Administrative principles as applied to airport operations, general aviation, government operations and enforcement, airline companies, and manufacturing companies. Emphasis upon Federal Aviation Administration regulations that govern and guide the administrator in these areas. 3300. Medical Illustration Techniques I. (3). Special techniques used by illustrators working in medical settings. 3301. Medical Illustration Techniques II. (3). Further instruction in special techniques used by illustrators working in medical settings. Work with case problems. 3302. Biomedical Photography. (3). Special techniques used by photographers working in medical settings. 3410. Contracts and Commercial Law. (3). (UNIV, ADOS, OFAD 3218). Survey of law affecting the formation, performance, and enforcement of contracts; the Uniform Commercial Code; consumer protection; debtor-creditor relations; and bankruptcy. Emphasis on paralegal's role in contract and commercial cases. PREREQUISITES: UNIV 2400, 2410, 2420. 3420. Torts. (3). Survey of state and federal law treating civil injury to persons or property; common law and statutory torts, worker's compensation, and insurance. Emphasis on paralegal's role in preparing personal injury and compensation cases. PREREQUISITES: UNIV 2400, 2410, 2420. 3430. Business Associations. (3). (UNIV, ADOS, OFAD 2219). Legal aspects of formation and operation of proprietorships, agencies, partnerships, and corporations. Emphasis on paralegal's role in drafting business documents and maintaining corporate records. PREREQUISITES: UNIV 2400, 2410, 2420. 3440. Civil Procedure. (3). (UNIV, ADOS, OFAD 3220). Application of Rules of Civil Procedure to civil litigation in federal and state courts; jurisdiction; pleadings; discovery requests; trial and appellate practices; judgments. Emphasis on paralegal's role in civil litigation. PREREQUISITES: UNIV 2400, 2410, 2420. 3450. Legal Research and Writing. II. (3). (2214). Advanced study of legal research and writing methods; computerized legal research; format and style of trial memorandum and appellate brief. PREREQUISITE: 15 hours in UNIV paralegal courses including UNIV 2420. 3481. Family Law. (3). (UNIV, ADOS, OFAD 2216). Substantive and procedural law affecting the family; marriage; procreation; divorce; child custody and support. Emphasis on Tennessee law and paralegal's role in family cases. PREREQUISITES: UNIV 2400, 2410, 2420. 3482. Labor Law. (3). (UNIV, ADOS, OFAD 3219). Law affecting employment relations; NLRB and EEOC procedures; OSHA and ADA issues in the workplace. Emphasis on paralegal's role in labor law cases. PREREQUISITES: UNIV 2400, 2410, 2420. 3483. Computers in the Law. (3). Detailed examination of practical, technical, and theoretical aspects of computer systems as applied in the modern law office; includes docket control, billing, communications, litigation support, and legal document production. PREREQUISITE: ISDS 2750. 3484. Bankruptcy Practices. (3). Intensive study of substantive and procedural law of bankruptcy; emphasis on applications and processes used by the paralegal when assisting in bankruptcy cases. PREREQUISITES: UNIV 2400, 2410, 2420. 3485. Real Estate Practices. (3). Substantive law of real property; acquisitions, characteristics, and transfer of interests in real estate; particular emphasis on the role of paralegals assisting real estate attorneys with realty transfers and closings in Shelby County, Tennessee. PREREQUISITES: UNIV 2400, 2410, 2420. 3601. Introduction to Health Services Administration. (3). Structure of the U.S. health care system and issues involved in administration of system. Overview of system including causes and characteristics of use of health University College Course 12:03:36 PM]services; individual provider settings; technology and resources needed to provide health care services; health care policy and politics. 3700-3739. Special Topics. (1-6). Examination of selected topics announced in Schedule of Classes. 3801. Jewish Thought. (3). Analysis and critical evaluation of major ideas representative of Jewish intellectual traditions. Focus upon theological and philosophical issues. With different content, may be repeated once. 4110. Internship. (3-6). Supervised training in work related to student's educational objectives. May be repeated to maximum of 12 hours. PREREQUISITE: approval of Out-of-Class Learning and Baccalaureate Contracts. (S/U) 4304. Studies in Feminism. (3). Analysis and application of feminist theory across disciplines; emphasis upon development of feminist philosophies and impact upon traditional methodologies and fields of study. 4380. Independent Study. (1-3). Directed individual study or research. Students who have identified area of study pertinent to their coordinated study program, that is not routinely taught, may pursue the study under direction of faculty member. May be repeated to maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: approval of Out-of-Class Learning and Baccalaureate Contracts. 4410. Paralegal Internship. (3). Students engage in supervised work experience in appropriate legal setting. Individual progress conferences arranged and evaluative reports developed. PREREQUISITES: approval of the Paralegal Studies director. (S/U) 4700-09. Advanced Special Topics. (3-6). Advanced examination of selected topics announced in Schedule of Classes. 4801. Jewish Mysticism and Reason. (3). Survey of Jewish mystical thought, its history, leading personalities, major concepts and seminal texts; relationship to normative Judaism and Jewish philosophy. [W]. 4830. The Politics of Israel. (3). Study of the Israeli political process. 4996. Special Project. (9). Academic research or other creative activity resulting in tangible product to demonstrate synthesis of student's Coordinated Study. PREREQUISITE: Completion of a Thematic Studies course (UNIV 35- and/or 45-). Students will receive an in-progress grade or a letter grade. PREREQUISITE: approval of Special Project and Baccalaureate Contracts. [I]. EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING (UNIV) A portfolio describing and documenting knowledge gained through experience or non-traditional instruction may be prepared by a University College student for assessment by a faculty member. (See Expenses and Aid and Academic Regulations sections for more details.) That faculty assessor recommends the descriptive title, level, and amount of credit to be assigned by the dean of University College. A maximum of 33 hours may be applied to a degree. Credit is posted to the student's transcript as follows. 1900. Introductory Level Experiential Learning in (descriptive title). 2900. Intermediate Level Experiential Learning in (descriptive title). 3900. Advanced Level Experiential Learning in (descriptive title). Independent Departments and Programs Course 12:03:37 PM]INDEPENDENT DEPARTMENTS AND PROGRAMS COURSE DESCRIPTIONS UNIVERSITY HONORS PROGRAM (UNHP) AUDIOLOGY AND SPEECH PATHOLOGY (AUSP) INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIES (INTD) U of M LIBRARIES (LBRY) ORIENTATION PROGRAM (ACAD) REMEDIAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL STUDIES (R&DS) Descriptions of the college and departmental programs are found with the appropriate major and degree descriptions.UNIVERSITY HONORS PROGRAM (UNHP) 1100. The Honors Forum. (1). Features series of weekly presentations by faculty, community leaders, and guest performers. Designed to expose students to wide range of scholarly, cultural, and political issues and pursuits that are part of university life. Required for the Honors Certificate. Students pursuing the certificate are encouraged to enroll in the forum as soon as possible. (S/U).2400-2499. Special Topics. (1-3). To accommodate student interests and faculty inspiration. May feature scholars-in-residence, museum exhibits, or other timely opportunities. Innovation in content and format encouraged. Counts toward Honors Certificate. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. May not be repeated to improve a former grade. 2900. Honors Projects. (1-3). To serve interests of individuals or small groups of students working collaboratively. Students encouraged to design their own projects or may pursue credit for Honors Projects in conjunction with "mini-seminars." May include reading, research, discussion group, or experiential projects. Credit varies according to project. Application to department and college honors programs at their discretion. No more than 3 hours may apply toward Honors Certification. May be repeated for credit; however, maximum credit allowed for any combination of 2900 and 4900 is 9 hours. (S/U). 3000. Human Communities. (3). Explores relationship among individuals and groups and between individuals and society. Concepts include theories of social order and change; social contract; concept of ethics; theories of market and state; concepts of cultural pluralism, human rights, and individual responsibility. Required for Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors or may apply to Honors Certificate. 4100-4199. Contemporary Issues. (3). Selected contemporary issues to be approached in terms of demographic, social, economic, political, cultural, and historical dimensions. Perspectives from social sciences and humanities. Emphasis on social policies as problem solving strategies. Varied topics based on broad thematic areas such as public education; race and ethnic relations; criminal justice system; religion in public life; role of media in political discussion. May be selected as option for Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors or may apply to Honors Certificate. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. May not be repeated to improve a former grade. 4201-4299. Cross-Cultural Perspectives. (3). Emphasis on global environment. Area study or thematic approach with consideration of demographic, social, economic, political, cultural, and historical dimensions. Perspectives from social sciences and humanities. May include such topics and areas as concept of the Third World, the non-western mind, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Japan, or post-colonial Africa. May be selected as an option for Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors or may apply to Honors Certificate. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. May not be repeated to improve a former grade. 4301-4399. Science and Technology. (3). Emphasis on relationship between science and technological innovation on the one hand and ethics, values, and public policy on the other. Includes basic science content suitable for non-science majors, as well as perspectives from social sciences and humanities. May include varied topics such as environmental issues, biomedical engineering, space program, artificial intelligence, human factors analysis, the mind and the brain. May be selected as an option for Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors or may apply to the Honors Certificate. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. May not be repeated to improve a former grade. 4401-4499. Interdisciplinary Special Topics. (3). Themes and topics that lend themselves to interdisciplinary discussion and analysis. Emphasis on texts and primary sources, as well as innovative teaching formats. May be team taught by faculty from two or Independent Departments and Programs Course 12:03:37 PM]more disciplines. May be selected as an option for Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors or may apply to Honors Certificate. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. May not be repeated to improve a former grade. 4900. Advanced Honors Projects. (1-3). Designed for individuals or small groups of students working collaboratively. Students encouraged to design own projects. May include reading, research, discussion group, or experiential projects. Advanced projects assume sufficient background for advanced level. Credit varies according to project. No more than 3 hours may apply toward Honors Certificate. Application to department and college honors programs at their discretion. Application to Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors negotiable. Letter grade unless student application for credit/no credit approved before registration. May be repeated for credit; however, maximum credit for any combination of UNHP 2900 and 4900 is 9 hours. May not be repeated to improve a former grade.4999. Honors Thesis. (3). (4300). In conjunction with a faculty mentor, most often from student's major department. Guidelines for students and faculty and applications available from Honors Office. Required for Interdisciplinary Liberal Arts Honors. Preliminary applications should be completed two semesters in advance. Formal applications due before final examinations week in semester preceding semester in which credit sought. Letter grade unless student application for credit/no credit approved before registration. Honors credit requires grade of A or B. May not be repeated to improve a former grade. SCHOOL OF AUDIOLOGY AND SPEECH-LANGUAGE PATHOLOGY AUDIOLOGY AND SPEECH PATHOLOGY (AUSP) 4100-6100. Introduction to American Sign Language. (3). Introduction to structure of American Sign Language. Includes manual alphabet and basic vocabulary. Practical applications in communication with deaf individuals and in signing in the performing arts.4200-6200. Introduction to Communication Disorders. (3). Overview of communication disorders in children and adults. Specific disorders including stuttering, articulation, hearing impairment, aural rehabilitation, aphasia, cerebral palsy, autism, and language-learning disabilities. Recommended for students interested in pursuing careers in speech-language pathology, audiology, special education, education, psychology, social work or allied health. INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIES INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIES (INTD) The following courses, INTD 2100, 4100-4110, and 4120-4130, compose part of the Interdisciplinary Environmental Program described under the College of Arts and Sciences. Before offering any of these courses, an instructor must gain approval from the university's Environmental Research, Issues, and Programs Committee (213 Mitchell Hall; 901-678-2253). 2100. Living in the Environment. (3). Interdisciplinary environmental science course that integrates material from the physical, natural and social sciences including ecosystems, land and water resources, population dynamics and control, pollution, and environment and society. 4100-4110. Topics in Biological-Physical Environmental Studies. (3). Biological-Physical environmental topics course. Each offering of this course must be approved by the Environmental Research, Issues, and Programs Committee. A student may repeat this course when the topics are different, but may not receive more than a total of 6 hours credit for 4100-4110. 4120-4130. Topics in Socio-Behavioral Environmental Studies. (3). Socio-behavioral environmental topics course. Each offering of this course must be approved by the Environmental Research, Issues, and Programs Committee. A student may repeat this course when the topics are different, but may not receive more than a total of 6 hours credit for 4120-4130. The following courses, INTD 4510 and 4511, compose an eight--month training program in law enforcement that prepares students for seasonal employment as rangers in the National Park Service and the Arkansas and Tennessee State Park Services. The program is coordinated by the area of Parks and Recreation in the Department of Health, Physical Education and Recreation. 4510-6510. Behavior Management in Recreation Areas I. (4). (3510). Concepts of industrial training and social psychology applied to teaching content and skills required for people-management positions such as rangers in federal and state parks. Classroom instruction, readings and applied practical exercises included. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. 4511-6511. Behavior Management in Recreation Areas II. (4). (3511). Advanced consideration of content and skills involved in managing people who visit recreation areas. Includes abnormal behavior and human relations, basic accident investigation, alcohol and drug abuse, and courtroom testimony and procedures. PREREQUISITE: INTD 4510 and permission of Independent Departments and Programs Course 12:03:37 PM]instructor.THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS LIBRARIES PROFESSOR LESTER POURCIAU, Director Room 203, McWherter Library U of M LIBRARIES (LBRY) 2010. Introduction to the Use of Library Resources. (3). Introduction to organization of academic library material; emphasis on bibliographic access to information. Lectures and assigned research problems to acquaint student with general and specialized methods of access to library material. ORIENTATION PROGRAM SUSAN MAGUN-JACKSON, Director Room 210 Engineering Technology Building ORIENTATION PROGRAM (ACAD) The Orientation Program offers a 3-hour credit course for entering freshmen only. The course has been specially designed to assist freshmen in making the transition to higher education by introducing them to the expectations and opportunities provided by the university.1100. Introduction to the University. (3). History, philosophy, and principles of higher education, with emphasis on The University of Memphis. Special attention to developing student skills necessary to meet the intellectual expectations of the university. OPEN TO FRESHMEN ONLY. REMEDIAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL STUDIES REBECCA S. ARGALL, Interim Director Room 171, Administration Building The Remedial and Developmental Studies Program at The University of Memphis permits students to enroll in special remedial/developmental level courses to achieve the academic competencies necessary for success in college level courses. Major components of the program include testing and placement in appropriate level courses, personalized classroom instruction, tutoring, and counseling assistance. ADMISSION TO THE PROGRAM (PLACEMENT) Students admitted to The University of Memphis as beginning freshmen may be required to take various placement tests to determine if they have the appropriate academic skills to successfully complete college level courses. Depending on the results of these tests, students may be required to take one or more Remedial/Developmental Studies courses. The following regulations regarding placement tests and course enrollment will apply: First-time freshmen admitted with an ACT composite score less than 19 (SAT total score less than 720), an ACT mathematics subscore less than 19 (SAT quantitative score less than 390), an ACT English subscore less than 19 (SAT verbal score less than 360), or no ACT (SAT) score, are required to take appropriate components of the AAPP course placement test as a condition of enrollment, and enroll in the courses indicated by the test results. An advisor in the Academic Counseling Unit or the Developmental Studies Office should be consulted regarding the test scores and placement. Testing is also required of students whose ACT (SAT) scores are more than 3 years old, transfer students with fewer than 60 semester hours and no college level credit in math or English, non-degree seeking Independent Departments and Programs Course 12:03:37 PM]students before enrollment in math or English, and students with high school unit deficiencies in algebra or English.As a result of the placement test, students may be placed in all remedial level courses, a combination of remedial and developmental courses, a combination of developmental and college level courses, or all college level courses. Students placing in Remedial/Developmental Studies courses must enroll in and begin each subject-area sequence at the level indicated by the test results, complete that particular sequence, and take the subject- area exit test before enrolling in the subsequent Level I (college level) course. Enrollment in any Remedial/Developmental Studies (R&DS prefix) course is restricted to students who have taken the appropriate AAPP test. Self-placement without testing is not permitted. RETESTINGApproval for retesting will be made only in extenuating circumstances and at the discretion of the Developmental Studies Program Director. Retesting must take place prior to university enrollment, but not within 90 days of initial testing. EXIT TEST A subject-area exit test is required at the completion of R&DS 0810, 0821, and 0840. A student who fails to take a required exit test may not enroll in a college level course for which the test is a prerequisite. ENROLLMENT RESTRICTIONS Enrollment in any Remedial/Developmental Studies (R&DS) course is restricted to students who have taken the appropriate AAPP test. Self-placement without testing is not permitted. Required testing must be completed prior to enrollment in courses for which the test is a prerequisite. Each Remedial/Developmental Studies course is a prerequisite for one or more other courses. A student who is required to take a Remedial/Developmental Studies course may not enroll in a higher level course for which the R&DS course is a prerequisite. CREDITEach Remedial/Developmental Studies course carries 3 semester hours of non-degree level credit. The credit may not be used to determine the number of degree credit hours earned or to meet any degree credit requirement. The credit will count in the calculation of full-time status and the undergraduate joint (UJ) grade point average, and toward eligibility for athletics, financial aid, scholarships, and housing. FEESFees for Remedial/Developmental Studies courses are the same as those for college level courses. COUNSELING AND TUTORING Students requiring Remedial/Developmental Studies testing or courses should be advised in the Academic Counseling Unit, Room 107, Scates Hall. Participation in tutoring and counseling sessions may be required. COURSE GRADES AND CLASS ATTENDANCE The grading scale for Remedial/Developmental Studies courses is A, B, C, F. No audit students will be Independent Departments and Programs Course 12:03:37 PM]permitted. Regular class attendance is mandatory and will be used in determining semester grades. TWO-ATTEMPT RULE A student who fails after two attempts to complete a Remedial/Developmental Studies course with a grade of C or better will be suspended from the university for one regular semester (spring or fall). Drops, withdrawals, and F grades count as unsuccessful attempts. Students who believe that extenuating circumstances justify a third attempt without suspension should contact the Developmental Studies Office regarding the appeals process. In the case of an appeal, the burden of proof for any extenuating circumstances will rest with the student. Other matters which will be taken into consideration in an appeal include current grade point average, class attendance, instructor recommendation, performance in other Remedial/Developmental Studies courses, and recommendations of student support services staff. Students failing to meet exit criteria after the third attempt will be suspended from the university. ADD/DROP AND WITHDRAWAL All students in Remedial/Developmental Studies courses wishing to drop a course or withdraw from the university after the end of the registration period must make an application to the Program Director within the normal university deadlines as stated in the "Semester Calendar." Approval for course add/drops or withdrawals will be made at the discretion of the Developmental Studies Program Director. Course Descriptions REMEDIAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL STUDIES (R&DS) Enrollment in R&DS courses is restricted. Students should see an advisor in the Academic Counseling Unit. See the description of the Remedial/Developmental Studies Program which immediately precedes this course listing. 0710. Basic Composition. (3). (ASDS). Brief reading and writing assignments; emphasis on basic competencies in spelling, punctuation, grammar, and stating and developing a thesis. Three lecture hours per week. Credit earned will not apply toward degree credit. 0720. Basic Mathematics. (3). (ASDS). Numbers and number operations, ratio and proportion, percent, statistics, measurement, geometry, variables and equations. Three lecture hours per week. Credit earned will not apply toward degree credit. 0740. Basic Reading Skills. (3). (ASDS). Essential reading skills needed as foundation for critical reading skills; emphasizes word attack skills, general vocabulary development, comprehension, and increased reading rate. Three lecture hours per week. Credit earned will not apply toward degree credit. 0810. Developmental Composition. (3). (ENGL 1100, ASDS 0810). Expository writing; emphasis on focus, development, and revision of short essays; review of problem areas of grammar, sentence style, punctuation, and use of sources. Three lecture hours per week. Credit earned will not apply toward degree credit. 0820. Developmental Algebra I. (3). (MATH 1000, ASDS 0820). Real numbers, variables, solving equations, polynomials, factoring, algebraic fractions, linear equations, systems of linear equations, inequalities, radicals, quadratic equations. Three lecture hours per week. Credit earned will not apply toward degree credit. 0821. Developmental Algebra II. (3). (MATH 1100, ASDS 0821). First degree equations, linear equations in two variables, polynomials, rational expressions, exponents and radicals, conic sections, systems of equations, inequalities, logarithms, sequences and series. Three lecture hours per week. Credit earned will not apply toward degree credit. 0830. Developmental Study Skills. (3). (ASDS). Necessary reasoning and study skills for college level work; emphasizes critical thinking skills and efficient study techniques. Three lecture hours per week. Credit earned will not apply toward degree credit. 0840. Developmental Reading Skills. (3). (ELED 1201, CIED 1201, ASDS 0840). Critical reading skills prerequisite for comprehension of college texts; emphasizes increased development of general vocabulary as well as technical and specialized vocabularies. Comprehension with special attention directed toward critical reading skills and improvement of reading flexibility and reading rate. Three lecture hours per week. Credit earned will not apply toward degree credit. Independent Departments and Programs Course 12:03:37 PM]