#http://www.memphis.edu/music/future/ad-voice.php
Artist Diploma - Voice - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Home Music Future Students Artist Diploma - Voice Opera Memphis Artists-in-Residence and the University of Memphis Artist Diploma Opera Memphis offers a two-year Artists-in-Residence program in partnership with the University of Memphis. This program is designed for those who may have already embarked on performing careers, or are on the brink of such careers. It offers opportunities to work with both a professional opera company and a strong, performance-oriented training program. There are three concentrations within the Artist Diploma degree program: VOICE OPERA COACHING OPERA STAGE DIRECTION Timetable: September 1 Applications open for Fall 2016 November 13 Vocalists prescreening application deadline November 16 Notification for vocalists invited for live auditions December 5 Live auditions in Memphis December 7 Live auditions in New York City January 1 Opera Coaching and Opera Stage Direction Positions application deadline. (At this time, the Stage Direction position is currently filled. However, applications will still be considered for Fall 2016. Opera Coaching audition/interviews will be individually scheduled.) For information about applying, please contact Mark Ensley . APPLICATIONS FOR ARTIST DIPLOMA – VOICE Application and Audition: Auditions will be held for the following voice types: soprano, mezzo, tenor, baritone/bass. Prescreening audition application requirements are: videos of four arias and two art songs of contrasting styles and languages uploaded to your application on DecisionDesk in addition to headshot, resume, repertoire lists, references, titles and composers of your pieces, and undergraduate degree information. Audio recordings may be used for the art song selections. Live audition requirements are: four arias and two art songs of contrasting styles and languages plus an age-appropriate monologue. Program Information: Each year Opera Memphis presents two mainstage productions and a chamber opera festival. Artists-in-Residence work with General Director, Ned Canty, and Music Director, Ben Makino, with nationally recognized singers, conductors and directors. Recent conductors have included Ari Pelto, Steven Osgood, and David Hayes. Performance opportunities for Artists-in-Residence at Opera Memphis include: -At least one main stage role in a production, supporting or comprimario -Covering principal roles -Education and outreach concerts -Touring programs -Singing in the chorus as needed Performance opportunities with the University of Memphis Opera include at least one principal role. There are two fully-staged opera productions with orchestra each academic year. Artists-in-Residence pursuing the Artist Diploma work with Mark Ensley, Director of Opera Studies and Ben Smith, Opera Stage Director at the University of Memphis. Read about opera at the University of Memphis . Students enrolled in this program work toward an Artist Diploma in Voice from the University of Memphis where they receive a full tuition waiver and a $6,000 stipend. The Artist Diploma curriculum offers considerable flexibility to the individual student. In addition to studio voice lessons, students receive vocal coaching, including coaching specific to preparation for his or her role in a production, as well as the opportunity to take electives. Artist Diploma students may enroll in any graduate or undergraduate class to best meet their individual needs. For more information about the curriculum, please consult the School of Music Graduate Handbook . Once accepted into the Artist Diploma program, applications to the University of Memphis Graduate School must be made by March 1, 2016. GRE or MAT exams are not required of Artist Diploma. On the university application select "Artist Diploma in Music CERT" as your planned course of study. APPLICATIONS FOR ARTIST DIPLOMA - OPERA COACHING Application: Applicants for the artist diploma in opera coaching will complete applications to both the graduate school and the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. The application to the School of Music will contain submission of a current resume and list of opera repertoire prepared (arias, scenes, acts, and full operas). Auditions: An audition for the artist diploma program in opera coaching will consist of the following materials presented before the Director of Opera Activities at the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music and the Music Director of Opera Memphis. -Prepare and present an act from an opera from the standard repertoire (choice determined by applicant with approval of the adjudicators) -Accompany yourself singing an aria or song of your choosing in a language other than of the opera selected -Sight-reading (3 or 4 excerpts) -Read short passages of Italian, French, and German for diction purposes only -Interview APPLICATIONS FOR ARTIST DIPLOMA – OPERA STAGE DIRECTION *At this time, the Stage Direction position is currently filled. However, applications will still be considered for Fall 2016. Application: Applicants for the artist diploma in stage direction will complete applications to both the graduate school and the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. In addition, applicants will prepare and send a portfolio of work in stage direction. The portfolio should contain a resume, production skills, written commentary about role in each production, video of direction of two scenes in contrasting styles, and any other supporting materials deemed appropriate by the applicant (essay on production style, reflections on previous productions, correspondence with designers, etc.). Auditions: The audition will consist of an interview with the general director of Opera Memphis and the stage director at the School of Music during which the applicant will answer questions about the portfolio and general questions about operatic stage direction. HOW TO APPLY To make your online application we recommend that you use Google Chrome or Safari or Firefox browsers. To participate in the screening, submit a Graduate Application online. You must log-in to DecisionDesk with your name and create a password. DecisionDesk charges $15 per application submission, payable with a credit or debit card. The online fee is not refundable. Applying online allows faculty to review your application in the most timely fashion, and is the easiest and fastest way to apply to the School of Music. You will be able to Save and Exit your application, go back in and out until it is complete. Once your application is submitted, you will be able to revisit but not change the content of your application except for resending your recommendation requests. For technical assistance with your application, contact DecisionDesk . For non-technical assistance, contact music admissions . For more information about acceptance as a graduate student at the University of Memphis, see the Graduate School or Graduate School Admissions websites. Future Students All Students Arrange a Visit Degrees Offered Ensembles Endowed Scholarships Admissions Contacts Undergraduates Request Information Degree Outlines Apply Now Application Information Admissions and Placements Audition Information Audition Requirements Scholarships Enrollment Timeline Theory Test Sample Student Handbook Graduates Request Information Apply Now Application Information Audition Information Audition Requirements Grad Studies and Assistantships Student Handbook Artist Diploma - Violin Artist Diploma - Voice Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .