#http://www.memphis.edu/step/research/research_resources.php
Research Resources - STEP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Systems Testing Excellence Program Research Programs Events Research Call for Proposals Publications Research Advisors Research Resources Research Team Home STEP Research Research Resources Research Resources Jump to: Workshop Papers | MIS Quarterly | Information Systems Research | Software Testing | System Testing Workshop Papers (.pdf) Transforming Software Testing with Function Extraction - Alan R. Hevner, Richard C. Linger, and Mark G. Pleszkoch A Tool for Risk-Based Testing - Linda Sherrell, Sarah Bowen, and Hima Puppala A General Framework for Information Processing with Application to Quantitative Software Testing - Vasile Rus and Sajjan Shiva Hercules: An Environment for Large-Scale Enterprise Infrastructure Testing - Lan Wang, Charles Ellis, Wei Yin, and Dung Dinh Luong Fault Injection: A Method for Validating Fault-Tolerant System - Salahuddin Mohammad Masum, Bhanu Chander Reddy Vanteru, and Mohammed Yeasin Automated Unit Testing with AgitarOne - Eamon McCormick A Framework for Aligning Testing and Software Development - Colin Onita and Jasbir Dhaliwal Generating Test Inputs for Fault-Tree Analyzers using Imperative Predicates - Sasa Misailovic, Aleksandar Milicevic, Sarfraz Khurshid, and Darko Marinov The Division Of Knowledge: Knowledge Transfer Practices in Outsourcing - Thomas F. Stafford, Mark Gillenson, and Sandra Richardson Applying Knowledge Management Approach for Software Testing - Ted Lee Can Employees' Personality and Cultural Characteristics Be Used to Predict their Best Fit With Software Testing Job Tasks? - Judith C. Simon, Judith C. Brown, Charles J. Campbell, and Sandra Richardson Knowledge Partitioning and Knowledge Transfer Mechanisms in Software Testing: An Empirical Investigation - Radhika Jain and Sandra Richardson The CollegeCareerCorps Model - Laurie Craig, Kevin Avent, and Jeff Brittain Managing Offshore Outsourcing of Software Testing - Robin S. Poston, Judith C. Simon, and Radhika Jain Importance of Test Automation in System Testing - Sudheer Mamadapur Interpersonal Conflict Between Developers and Testers in Software Development - Xihui Zhang, Jasbir Dhaliwal, and Mark Gillenson Generalization of MOPS for Software Testing using Finite State Machine - Mohammad S. Sorower, Mohammad F. Ahmed, and Mohammed Yeasin Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) Testing - Khais Khan, Satheesh Kumar, and Prabahakran Sundaram Testing in the Early Phases of the Software Development Life Cycle - Sarah B. Lee, Linda B. Sherrell, Hima Puppala, and Sajjan Shiva Engaging Testers Early and Throughout the SDLC - Mark L. Gillenson, Xihui Zhang, and Sandra Richardson Development of Decision Models for Best Use of Software Testing Resources - Charles J. Campbell, Judith C. Simon, and Ronald B. Wilkes MIS Quarterly A Multiple criteria for evaluating Information systems. By John S. Chandler. MIS quarterly, Mar82, Vol. 6 Issue 1, p61-74, 14p, 3 charts, 1 diagram, 1 graph; ( AN 4679371 ) Evaluating Information system effectiveness – Part 1 Comparing evaluation approaches . By Scott Hamilton, Norman L. Chervany MIS Quarterly , Sep81, Vol. 5 Issue 3, p55-69, 15p; ( AN 9267656 ) Measuring Information system Performance: Experience with the management by results system at security Pacific bank. By: Singleton, John P.; Mclean, Ephraim R.; Altman, Edward N MIS Quarterly , Jun88, Vol. 12 Issue 2, p324, 14p, 4 charts, 1 diagram; ( AN 4680431 ) Information Systems Research A Decision Model for Software Maintenance . By: Krishnan, M. S.; Mukhopadhyay, Tridas; Kriebel, Charles H.. Information Systems Research , Dec2004, Vol. 15 Issue 4, p396-412, 17p A Fault Threshold Policy to Manage Software Development Projects . By: Chiang, I. Robert; Mookerjee, Vijay S.. Information Systems Research , Mar2004, Vol. 15 Issue 1, p3-21, 19p Enabling Software Development Team Performance During Requirements Definition: A Behavioral Versus Technical Approach . By: Guinan, Patricia J.; Cooprider, Jay G.; Faraj, Samer. Information Systems Research , Jun98, Vol. 9 Issue 2, p101-125, 25p Modeling Coordination in Software Construction: An Analytical Approach . By: Koushik, Murlidhar V.; Mookerjee, Vijay S.. Information Systems Research , Sep95, Vol. 6 Issue 3, p220-254, 35p Optimal Software Development: A Control Theoretic Approach . By: Yonghua Ji; Mookerjee, Vijay S.; Sethi, Suresh P.. Information Systems Research , Sep2005, Vol. 16 Issue 3, p292-306. Portfolios of Control in Outsourced Software Development Projects . By: Choudhury, Vivek; Sabherwal, Rajiv. Information Systems Research , Sep2003, Vol. 14 Issue 3, p291-314, 24p The Effects of Time Pressure on Quality in Software Development : An Agency Model. By: Austin, Robert D.. Information Systems Research , Jun2001, Vol. 12 Issue 2, p195, 13p Software Testing An introduction to the testing and test control notation (TTCN-3) Computer Networks: By: Jens Grabowski, Dieter Hogrefe, and György Réthy, the International Journal of Computer and Telecommunications Networking, June 2003,Volume 42, Issue 3, Pages: 375 - 403, ISSN: 1389-1286 An Approach to Testing COTS Software for Robustness to Operating System Exceptions and Errors. By: Anup K. Ghosh and Matthew Schmid,Proceedings of the 10th International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering , Year of Publication: 1999 ,Page: 166, ISBN:0-7695-0443-4 Inoculating software for survivability Communications of the ACM . By: Anup K. Ghosh, Jeffrey M. Voas, July 1999,Volume 42 , Issue 7,Pages: 38 – 44, ISSN:0001-0782 Inspecting and Asserting Intelligently. By: J.Voas, K.Miller From Testing to Trading. By:Murray Ruggiero and Angela Vigliotti, October 1999, Technology &amp; Trading, Futures Factors That Affect Software Testability. By: Voas Jeffrey M,Technical Report: NASA-91-9pnsqc-jmv ,Year of Publication: 1991 Long-Term Testing in a Short-Term World Long-Term Testing in a Short-Term World, By: Vaughn T. Rokosz, IEEE Software, May 2003, Volume 20, Issue 3, Pages: 64 – 67, ISSN: 0740-7459 Six thinking hats to improve testing , By: Julian Harty, 2nd June 2006, six thinking hats tutorial at CAST 2006, Page 16 of 18. Testing the Robustness of Windows NT Software. By: Ghosh, M. Schmid and V. Shah,Proceedings of the the Ninth International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering , Year of Publication: 1998, Page: 231, ISBN:0-8186-8991-9 T esting and verification of network management and design tools. By: Mansoor Alicherry 1 , Randeep Singh Bhatia 2 , Harsha Nagesh 1 , Chitra Phadke 3 , Vishy Poosala, Bell Labs Technical Journal, 9 Dec 2003, Volume 8, Issue 3 , Pages 3 – 13 System Testing Employees and High-Performance Work Systems: Testing inside the Black Box by Harvie Ramsay, Dora Scholarios &amp; Bill Harley; British Journal of Industrial Relations; Volume 38 Page 501 - December 2000 Rapid Embedded System Testing Using Verification Patterns by Wei-Tek Tsai Lian Yu Feng Zhu Ray Paul ; IEEE Software Volume 22 , Issue 4 (July 2005) Pages: 68 - 75 System Testing by Gail Hagen System testing for an online world by James T. Holter System Testing via Monte Carlo by Wolf Ron Ronik Test Statistics for System Design Failure by John May , Silke Kuball and Gordon Hughes; Technical Report CSTR-98-006; Department of Computer Science, University of Bristol, April 1998 Test, Measurement and management by Bob Shine, Kathy Li-Dessau, And Steve Cason Testing intersystem functionality: the relationships between systems can be complex, but there's still room to simplify by Rebecca Ellis ; Engineered Systems , July, 2005 Research Call for Proposals Publications Research Advisors Research Resources Research Team About Us What does STEP do? Discover the answer here! CAST Learn more about the Cluster to Advance Security &amp; Testing. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .