#http://www.memphis.edu/ceri/news/
news - CERI - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Center for Earthquake Research and Information About Study Research People Public News ESSSA Home CERI News Recent and upcoming events at CERI MEETINGS The 87th Annual Meeting of the Eastern Section of the Seismological Society of America will be hosted by the Center for Earthquake Research and Information on October 5–8, 2015. The meeting will be held at the University of Memphis, in Memphis, Tennessee, USA. Oral and poster presentations are welcomed in all areas of seismology, engineering seismology, paleoseismology, geophysics, geodesy, geotechnical engineering, engineering geology, earthquake geology, earthquake hazard analysis and mitigation, earthquake education, or any topic consistent with the objectives of the Seismological Society of America. Sessions are planned on EarthScope in the central United States (CEUS), CEUS source studies, NGA-East results, CEUS earthquake hazards, CEUS geodynamics, CEUS geodesy and GPS, and induced seismicity. Papers relevant to eastern North America and student papers are particularly encouraged. Abstracts must be submitted for all presentations. For information on abstract submission, registration, preliminary schedule, field trip, hotel, and more, please visit the meeting website . STUDENT AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS [June, 2015] PhD student Yang Yang has been awarded a scholarship from the Society of Exploration Geophysicists (SEG) for the 2015-2016 academic year. The recognition given to Yang includes scholarship funds from the SEG/Excel Geophysical Services Scholarship, the Fred and Kathi Hilterman Scholarship, and the SEG/Schlumberger Scholarship. [June, 2015] PhD students Akram Mostafanejad , Brian Young , Cecilia Nyamwandha , and John Meredith received travel grants to attend the EarthScope meeting held in Stowe, Vermont from June 14–17. Conference highlights included the opportunity to showcase research in the poster sessions, hear firsthand results of pioneering EarthScope studies and discussions on the future after EarthScope. [May, 2015] PhD student Cecilia Nyamwandha received a travel grant to attend the 2015 Joint Assembly Meeting cosponsored by AGU, CGU, GAC, and MAC. This meeting was held May 3–7 at the Palais des Congrès de Montréal in Montreal, Canada. At the meeting she presented a poster titled "What is the Driving Mechanism of Earthquakes in the New Madrid Seismic Zone? – A study of Shear Wave Splitting and Tomography" co-authored with CERI Prof. Christine Powell . The abstract of Cecilia's presentation can be found here . [April, 2015] PhD student Cecilia Nyamwandha received a Student Presentation Award at the 2015 Annual Meeting of the Seismological Society of America for her poster "Anisotropy beneath the New Madrid Seismic Zone – A study of shear wave splitting." The SSA Student Presentation Awards recognize excellence in student poster presentations or talks at its annual meeting. The award is given to up to 15% of the number of students presenting at the meeting, whose presentations met an absolute criteria covering the quality of both content and presentation. The abstract of her presentation, co-authored with CERI Prof. Christine Powell can be found here . [April, 2015] PhD student Naeem Khoshnevis received a travel grant from the Seismological Society of America (SSA) to to attend the 2015 SSA Annual Meeting. The event was held on April 21–23 in Pasadena, California. At the meeting, Naeem participated with an oral presentation titled "Evaluation of attenuation models (Qs-Vs relationships) used in physics-based ground-motion earthquake simulation," co-authored with CERI and Civil Engineering Assistant Prof. Ricardo Taborda . The abstract of Naeem's presentation can be found here . [March, 2015] PhD student Demian Gomez was recognized with the 2nd Place Prize for his poster presentation at the University of Memphis Student Research Forum. The event, hosted by the Graduate School, the University Honors Program, and the Graduate Student Association, took place at the University Center on March 30. The forum provides a venue for students at the University of Memphis to present their research to a panel of faculty judges in their respective disciplines. [December, 2014] PhD student Cecilia Nyamwandha received a travel grant to attend the 2014 Fall Meeting of the American Geophysical Union (AGU). The meeting was held in San Francisco, California on December 15–19. At the meeting she presented a poster titled "Crustal and upper mantle velocity structure of the New Madrid Seismic Zone" co-authored with CERI Prof. Christine Powell and Prof. Charles Langston. The abstract of Cecilia's presentation can be found here . [November, 2014] PhD student Akram Mostafanejad was awarded the Best Student Poster Award at the Annual Meeting of the Easter Section of the Seismological Society of America. Her poster, titled "Average shear wave velocity for the Mississippi embayment sediment inferred from teleseismic P-wave spectral ratios" was co-author with CERI Director, Prof. Charles Langston . The ESSSA meeting was held on November 2-4, 2014 in Charleston, South Carolina. [October, 2014] PhD students Yang Yang and Blaine Bockholt were selected to attend the SEG/Exxon Mobil Student Education Program. This two and a half days training program includes lectures and exercises effectively conducted and related to the geosciences or to geophysical work performed in the oil industry. ExxonMobil provides course materials, team exercises, and instructors. Participants undergo a rigorous selection process and receive full travel grants to join the program. This year's program took place in Denver, Colorado, on October 24-26, during the SEG International Exposition and 84th Annual Meeting. [October, 2014] PhD student Akram Mostafanejad was selected to participate in the SEG/Chevron Student Leadership Symposium (SLS). The recognition included a travel grant to participate in a two-day focused leadership program. The event took place during the SEG Annual Meeting in Denver, Colorado. [September, 2014] PhD student Naeem Khoshnevis was selected to participate in the 2014 Summer School on Earthquake Science , organized by the Southern California Earthquake Center (SCEC) and the University of Tokyo's Earthquake Research Institute (ERI). The event was held on September 28 through October 2, in Oxnard, California. The theme for the program was titled "Wave and rupture propagation with realistic velocity structures". More than 65 applications were reviewed and only 22 U.S. and International participants were selected to join 10 scholars from the US and Japan. [June, 2014] PhD students Akram Mostafanejad and Demian Gomez received travel grants to attend the CIG Crustal Deformation Modeling Workshop. The workshop was held at Stanford University and included hands-on tutorials on PyLith, a finite-element code for crustal deformations simulations related to earthquakes and volcanoes. Graduate Study at CERI Want to perform cutting edge research in a collegial and supportive environment? Seismic information View a list of Stations, Earthquake Catalogs, Monitoring Partners, and more... Earthquake Resources Recent Earthquakes, Education &amp; Outreach, Preparedness, Data Products, Media Products, and more... Contact Us For questions or more information, please contact the main office of CERI Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .