#http://libguides.memphis.edu/religious_studies
Welcome - Religious Studies - LibGuides at University of Memphis Libraries Skip to main content University Libraries LibGuides Religious Studies Welcome Enter Search Words Search Religious Studies: Welcome Research guide for Religious Studies program at the University of Memphis Welcome Methodology Christianity Islam Buddhism & Shinto Judaism Religious Studies Help From the Library Get Help From The Library With Your Research. Religious Studies News - The Guardian Search @ U of M Libraries Top Databases for Anthropology SAGE Premier PsycInfo Wiley Online Library Welcome The Religious Studies Research Guide This Guide provides information on resources available through the University of Memphis for the study of religion. The sources presented are peer-reviewed, scholarly works that address the study of religion from multiple vantage points. These resources have been grouped according to the religion they address, with a special section devoted to resources which address the methodology of religious studies. This is not a collection of every resource available through the University of Memphis. It is designed to provide you with a starting point. If you are unsure about where to start, consult the "getting started" section below. Useful Resources Finding Information "> Here are a few pre-formed searches created by University of Memphis Librarians to help gain quick topical access. Use these to help you start your own search Search Topic Books Articles Religion and America Books Articles Religion and Gender Books Articles Traditions and Practices Books Articles Religion and Equal Rights Books Articles Have your own search topic? Use these databases or search The University Library catalog Citation Guides "> Need Help with MLA or APA? Chicago Manual of Style Online The OWL: MLA The Online Writing Lab from Purdue provides quick access to the fundamentals of MLA Style/formatting with lots of examples. The OWL: APA The Online Writing Lab from Purdue provides quick access to the fundamentals of APA Style/formatting with lots of examples. Publication Manual of the American Psychological Assocaition Need more than quick examples? Consult tStyle at McWherter Library, 1st floor RIS Desk. MLA Handbook for Writers Need more than quick examples? Consult the most recent edition of APA Style at McWherter Library, 1st floor RIS Desk. Research &amp; Documentation Online Citing Goverment Sources Quick Introduction to 5 Major Religions Subject Guide Cody Behles Subjects: Help/How-To Guides Huffington Post - Religion Next: Methodology &gt;&gt; Last Updated: Nov 17, 2015 11:14 AM URL: Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. Subjects: Humanities Tags: buddhism , christianity , islam , judaism , religion , shinto , subject guide