#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/news-events/sophia/2013_sophia_final.pdf
1 Issue 3 / Spring 2013 Sophia From the Chair Dear Friends of the University of Memphis Philosophy Department, There have been many exciting new developments in the Philosophy department since our last newsletter. To name just a few: We have made four new faculty hires over the past two years! Despite the economic downturn, our administration has supported our efforts to build our program. They know a good investment when they see it. Dr. Somogy Varga and Dr. Luvell Anderson have joined us as Assistant Professors in the fall of 2012. Dr. Melissa Ebbers joined us as a full - time instructor and coordinator of our online BA program in the fall as well. We have also very recently recruited Dr. Verena Erlenbusch as an assistant professor, and she will join us in the fall of 2013. These hires have allowed us to reinforce our strengths in social and political philosophy. Please be sure to read about them in our new faculty spotlight. In addition to faculty recruitment, our graduate and undergraduate programs continue to flourish. With over 75 majors and an active philosophy club, our undergrads are taking the campus by storm. Their undergraduate conference received over 50 submissions this year and was a huge success. Our graduate students are giving talks at national and international conferenc es and remain competitive despite a difficult job market. As you will see in this newsletter, our faculty, students, and alumni are doing amazing things. I am extremely proud to have served as its Chair for the past five years. Welcome New Faculty Department of Philosophy In the fall of 2012, we welcomed assistant professors Dr. Luvell Anderson and Dr. Somogy Varga to the philosophy depart- ment, along with Dr. Melissa Ebbers as an instructor and online B.A. coordinator (see more about the online program and Dr. Ebbers on page 10). Luvell Anderson received his B.A. in philosophy from the University of Missouri in St. Louis and completed his PhD in philosophy at Rutgers University. Before coming to Memphis, he was an Alain Locke Postdoctoral Fellow at Pennsylvania State University. He specializes in the philosophy of lan- guage and philosophy of race and has published various articles on racial slurs, including in the New York Times . His work concentrates on the se- mantics and ethics of racial language and racist humor. Luvell also has inter- ests in social and political philosophy and the philosophy of mind. Somogy Varga completed his PhD at Goethe Universität, Frankfurt am Main. He has worked at the Institute of Social Research in Frankfurt and has conducted postdoctoral research at the Institute of Cognitive Science at the University of Osnabruck. He was also a visiting researcher at the Centre for Subjectivity Research at the University of Copenhagen. His primary areas of research are philoso- phy of psychiatry/mind, moral psychology, social philosophy, and critical theory. His book Authen- ticity as an Ethical Ideal was published in 2011. Luvell Anderson Somogy Varga 2 Visiting Scholars Anne Gléonec, in concert with the Erasmus Mundus Master EuroPhilosophie Program, which provides graduate students and faculty of the participating universities to travel as visit- ing scholars. is the Director of Interdisciplinary Center (Language - Mind - Society) at Hradec Králové (Czech Repub- lic) and Assistant Professor at the Department of Philosophy and Social Science, Faculty of Arts, University of Hradec His philosophical interests are in the history and philosophy of science, philosophy of social science, and historical episte- mology. He co - - Ponty with visiting professor Bryan Smyth in spring 2011. Anne Gléonec is a Doctor and Professor agrégée of Phi- losophy. After teaching for five years in France, she contin- ued to pursue professional activities at the Faculty of Hu- manities of Charles University, Prague, where she has taught and conducted research since 2009, while serving as the leading francophone professor for the Erasmus Mundus Eu- roPhilosophie program. Her philosophical interests focus on phenomenology and phenomenological thinking, following two primary axes: phenomenology of the body and its critical relation to the sciences via the work of Merleau - Ponty, and phenomenology of the political. She taught a graduate course entitled - The Notion of Institution, or from the Phenomenology of Perception to the Phenomenology of Action in fall 2012. In addition to the Erasmus Mundus program, the depart- ment continues to welcome visiting professors to teach and share their research: Ayca Boylu was a visiting professor from 2011 - 2012 after having completed her PhD in Philosophy at the University of Virginia earlier in 2011. She was selected as a Junior Fel- low of the Society of Fellows at the University of Virginia in 2006. She also received the Excellence for Scholarship in the Humanities & Social Sciences Award in 2011. Her dis- fended the view that excellence in ethical cognition lies in moral understanding rather than moral knowledge. She taught a seminar on virtue epistemology in fall 2011. Dale Matthew joined the department as a visiting assis- tant professor and diversity post - doctoral fellow in fall 2012. He works mainly in political philosophy and the phi- 2012 at York University in Toronto, Canada. Spindel Conference The 30th annual Spindel Conference, held September 29 - October 1, 2011 under the direction of Dr. Kas Saghafi - keynote addresses were given by Peggy Kamuf (University of South Carolina) and Geoffrey Bennington (Emory University). Other sessions featured the work of Michael Naas (DePaul Univer- sity), Kelly Oliver (Vanderbilt University), Thomas Dutoit (Université Lille 3), and Elizabeth Rottenburg (DePaul University). The 31st annual Spindel Confer- took place October 4 - 6, 2012 under the direction of Dr. Pleshette DeArmitt . The con- ference welcomed speakers work- ing at the intersection of psycho- analysis, philosophy, comparative literature, political theory, relig- ion, and science, addressing the featured keynote speakers Elissa Marder (Emory Univer- sity) and Philippe Van Haute (Radboud Universiteit Ni- jmegen). There were also papers delivered by Gil Anidjar (Columbia University), Adrian Johnston (University of New Mexico), Tracy McNulty (Cornell University), Paul Moyaert (Katholiek Universiteit Leuven), and a special featured Martin McQuillan and Simon Morgan Wortham (both from Kingston University Lon- don). The upcoming 32nd annual Spindel Conference is set to take place on September 26 - 28, 2013. The confer- ence director is Dr. Stephan Blatti , The problem of personal identity is one of the most bewitching puzzles in all of philosophy. Until very recently, most philosophers subscribed to the view first advocated by John Locke (1632 1704). Locke held that our Professor Gil Anidjar (Columbia University) re- sponds to questions after his presentation as commentator Emily Zakin (Miami University of Ohio) takes note at the 2012 Spindel. 3 Professor James Retires The Spring of 2011 saw the re- tirement of Dr. Gene James . James earned his B.A. in phi- losophy from Wake Forest Uni- versity in 1959 and followed this up with a Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina in 1969. James joined the philoso- phy department in 1964. He served as chair of the depart- ment from 1973 to 1978 and from 1980 to 1981. And was designated Professor Emeritus in January 2013. During his tenure at The Uni- versity of Memphis, he served as managing editor of The Southern Journal of Philosophy from 1972 to 1986 and assis- tant editor from 1987 to 2008. He served as editor of Dia- logue & Alliance , book review editor of The National Forum, and on the executive council for the Southern Society for Phi- losophy and Psychology. In addition, he is a past president of the American Society for Value Inquiry and a past recipient of the University of Mem- phis Distinguished Teaching Award. He, along with Dr. Nancy Simco, coauthored Elementary Logic (Wadsworth), and he is editor of the anthology, The Search for Faith and Justice in the Twentieth Century (Paragon). He has published numerous articles over his career, most recently in applied ethics, value theory, and philosophy of religion. James was instrumental in starting the graduate program in philosophy at The University of Memphis. As a teacher, Dr. James taught every philosophy course on the books at some point during his years here, including the ever - popular Philosophy and Film and Human and the Divine. Dr. Tom Nenon had this to say of his colleague since 1985: Gene James was a mainstay of the department for over four decades. If there were ever a life - long learner (long before the phrase was coined), Gene is it. His scholarship came out of a genuine curiosity and intellectual commitment that he conveyed effectively to the students in his classes, where he genuinely chal- lenged his students to think critically and independently. His students and his colleagues could not help noting his wit, his Dr. Donna Roland, who took courses from James in 2005 and 2006, going on to complete her PhD in I/O Psychology in 2010, had this to say of Dr. James: Dr. Gene James was one of my very favorite professors in all of my college and graduate school years. His coursework pro- foundly impacted my life and continues to do so to this day. Aside from his academic contributions, though, he was one of the most genuine and respectable professors I had the privilege of working with. He took an active interest in my life outside of school and became both a mentor and friend. He is one of those rare professors who truly does make a difference in the lives of his students, as I know he has had a significant impact on mine. The philosophy department will certainly be missing something from here on out, but he can rest assured that his many years in that department have made a positive and life - enriching differ - ence to all of the students who had the sense to pay attention and take his teachings to heart. I wish him all the best in his retirement. fundamental nature is given by our status as self - ditions under which we persist through time and change are thus to be accounted for in terms of psychological continuity. The main topic of the Spindel Conference will be the anti - Lockean view that has recently gained sup- port amongst philosophers. According to the view known our psychological capacities, but by our biological consti- tution: we are primates ( Homo sapiens ), and like all organisms, we persist just in case we continue living. The overarching aim of the conference is to provide a forum in which metaphysicians and philosophers of mind working on animalism are brought together with those who are presently engaged in pertinent debates in other areas of philosophy -- including philosophy of biology, metaphysics, ethics, philosophical psychology, and philosophy of religion. So, besides animalism in its own right, among the topics to be explored are the na- ture of organic life, the metaphysics and ethics of death, issues in animal cognition, the possibility of the afterlife, and animal interests. The finalized schedule and list of participants will be available on the philoso- phy department website. At press time, the con- firmed speakers include John Dupré (University of Exeter), Paul Snowdon (University College Lon- don), Eric Olson (University of Sheffield), Steven Luper (Trinity University), Colin Allen (Indiana University), Hud Hudson (Western Washington University), Lori Gruen (Wesleyan University), Robert Lurz (City Univer- sity of New York Brooklyn College), and David Shoe- maker (Tulane University). make a difference in the lives of his students, as I - Donna Roland 4 Faculty Spotlight Our faculty has numerous notable publications on the books. Dr. Shaun Gallagher Phenome- nology (Palgrave - Macmillan) was released in 2012. Dr. Tom Nenon co - edited a volume on for the Contributions to Phe- nomenology series (Springer) in cooperation with the Center for Advanced Research in Phe- nomenology. Dr. Pleshette DeArmitt The Right to Narcissism: A Case for an Im - possible Self - Love is forthcoming in 2013 with Fordham University Press. Dr. John Tienson is currently writing a book with Terry Horgan and George Graham entitled Phenomenal Inten- tionality (Oxford University Press). Dr. Stephan Blatti Analysis and a reply to this paper by Carl Gillett will appear in Analysis in 2013. He has also published American Phi- losophical Quarterly The Continuum Companion to Meta- physics , ed. R. Barnard and N. Manson. Dr. Bill Lawson received a Fulbright Scholar Award for 2011 - 2012. Dr. Lawson was selected and colonization, as well as the social and cultural his- tory of 16 th century Britain. In addition, Dr. Lawson con- ducted a master class at University College Cork Faculty Research After wrapping up the 2010 Spindel conference and publica- tion, which focused on empathy's import for contemporary ethics, Dr. Remy Debes turned his attention to the history of ethics. He completed two book chapters, one for an Oxford University Press anthology Reading Hume's on The Princi- ples of Morals other for the Routledge Companion to Eighteenth Century Philosophy , entitled In British Journal for the History of Philosophy , as well as a Spanish language translation of one of his earlier articles on Hume in Cuadernos filosófi- cos cle the Journal for Scottish Philosophy , International Encyclo- pedia of Ethics . At present he is writing an invited essay for an Oxford University Press volume on the history of the con- for a Princeton Uni- versity Press guidebook to the philosophy of Adam Smith. In 2013, Dr. Debes intends to turn his attention back to con- temporary ethics, and, in particular, the concept of human dignity. He has been invited to edit a volume in the Oxford ning a conference based on that anthology. This coming summer he will also break ground on a book length manu- script devoted to a defense of his hypothesis that persons have dignity in virtue of their affective or passionate person- alities. Besides these publishing efforts, Dr. Debes has been busy presenting his work, including giving one of two keynote presentations at the South Central Seminar in Early Mod- ern Philosophy in the fall of 2011 and the keynote presenta- tion to the Graduate Conference in the Philosophy Depart- ment at Texas Tech in spring 2012. In other conference re- lated work, Dr, Debes co - April 2013. Other recent highlights include being named (in lence in Advising for his previous three and a half years of service as Undergraduate Advisor, and election to the Board of the International Adam Smith Society. (Ireland) on articulations of race and racism in policy and cultural contexts . This workshop was held on March 7 - 8, 2012. Dr. Mary Beth Mader has published Foucault Studies . Dr. Hoke Robinson forthcoming Proceedings of the 11 th Interna- tional Kant Congress , which took place in Pisa in 2010. Dr. Tim Roche is currently working on a book defending a unique interpretation of Aris- totle's conception of eudaimonia (happiness) in his Nicomachean Ethics . Dr. Kas Saghafi has had numerous articles the Marvelous: Resurrection and Living - Death Mosaic , and in Oxford Literary Review . Dr. Deb Tollefsen has also published numer- ous articles in 2011 and 2012, including Collec- tive Epistemology Joint Action: A Process - - authored with Rick Dale in Philosophical Psychology . 5 Graduate Program Our graduate students continue to be recognized for their excellence in teaching. Matthew Lexow was chosen by a university - wide committee as one of two recipients of the Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Award for the 2010 - 11 academic school year, and Michael Burroughs was a recipient of the same award in 2011 - 12. In 2012, Alice Everly attended the Third Annual International Summer School in German Philosophy in Bonn, Germany. Marygrace Hemme presented a paper at the first annual Feminine Genius and the Importance of Re - Paul Hammond Miami University of Ohio in April 2012. He also attended the International Summer School in Political Philosophy in Istanbul, Turkey in July, and presented a paper titled Justin Sledge spoke at the Memphis International the Civil Rights March sponsored by the historical AFSCME local 1733. Our graduates continue to enjoy placement success. Timothy Golden (PhD, 2011) started in fall 2011 as an Associate Professor of philosophy at West Chester University. Tina Fernades Botts (PhD, 2011) began in fall 2011 as an Assistant Professor at The University of North Carolina at Charlotte. Michael Burroughs (PhD, 2012) is cur- rently a Visiting Professor and Parr Center Outreach Fellow at The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. Arsalan Memon (PhD, 2012) has a visiting position at Lewis University for 2012 - 13. Tamara Haywood (PhD, 2011) and Cheri Carr (PhD, 2012) have remained closer to home, continuing to teach philosophy at Memphis. Faculty Research Dr. Shaun Gallagher was one of seven re- searchers in humanities and social sciences awarded the Anneliese Maier Research Award by the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation at a ceremony at the Uni- versity of Heidelberg in September 2012. The award of 250,000 will be used to support re- search collaborations between the University of Memphis and the Ruhr University, Bochum, in Germany. With support from this award, Dr. Gallagher and the philoso- phy department sponsored an international and interdiscipli- October 25 - 26, 2012 in downtown Memphis. The aim of this workshop was to examine the different levels of explanation of schizophrenia person - level, phenomenological descrip- tions; subpersonal, neurological, and cognitive descriptions; - asking which offered the best account of schizophrenic symptoms. Gallagher Leads Investigation into Space Flight Dr. Shaun Gallagher is also the Principle Investigator on - year $300,000 grant supports phe- nomenological and empirical research on experiences re- ported by astronauts during space flight, often in aesthetic, spiritual, or religious terms. This interdisciplinary research team is comprised of philosophers, psychologists, neurosci- entists, simulation engineers, and art historians at the Uni- versity of Central Florida and the Humboldt University in Berlin, as well as three philosophy graduate students Ben- jamin Aguda , Chris Lucibella , and Lucas Olsen from The University of Memphis. The research involves conduct- ing experiments in a simulated environment, measuring, logical, neurophysiological, and phenomenological methods. Test subjects are interviewed right after going through a vis- ual, audio, and atmospheric simulation that mimics viewing earth from space. They are interviewed with phenomenol- ogical interview techniques using words supplied by the subject, talking about the experience as if it was happening in the now, and getting a description of an invocative state as opposed to a re - examining of the experience. The aim is to get different dimensions of their experience, includ- ing their bodily experience, what they were thinking about during the experi- ence, and what those thoughts were like. PhD Student Paul Hammond in- structing his Values and the Modern World class. Dr. Shaun Gallagher receiving the Anneliese Maier Research Award in Heidelberg 6 Philosophy Graduate Student Conference The graduate students continue to host an annual Philoso- phy Graduate Student Conference . The 8 th annual con- on February 10 - 11, 2012 with keynote speaker Lisa Schwartz- man (Michigan State University). Papers explored many aspects of the influence of feminist liberal theory on the liberal political framework, as well as critiques of the liberal model from a feminist perspective. The organizers of this conference were led by graduate student Paul Hammond . The 9 th annual conference, led by graduate student Justin Sledge , will be in April 2013, on the theme of Philosophy of Labor. The motivation be- hind this topic stems from the impact of the so - tion of economic and political concerns which tend to be ob- scured in times characterized by perceived wide - spread prosperity. One of these concerns is a renewed interest in and the politicization of labor. This was a key issue in the and protests in Wisconsin in 2011; and it was one of the fundamental talking points of those involved in the Occupy Movement. Philosophy, too, has something to offer in this international conversation. This conference is more than a sharing of papers. In addition to graduate student papers, the aim is to emphasize the practical character of bringing philosophy to the streets. The conference is being sponsored by local labor unions, including Team- sters Local 984, United Campus Workers Local 3865, and Workers Interfaith Network. It will include a phi- losopher - activist round table and a visit to the National Civil Rights Museum downtown. The keynote speaker will be Jason Read (University of Southern Maine), who has published on Marxism, revolution, and neoliberalism. Graduate Student Spotlight Corey Barnes is a second year doctoral student in the Philosophy Department. Barnes received a B.A. in Religious and Philosophical Studies from Fisk University in 2006. From there he attended Union Theological Seminary in New York, receiving a Masters of Arts in 2009. He then attended Howard University, completing a M.A. in philosophy in 2011. When Barnes attended Fisk, it was initially to study Computer Science and Music Performance, as Barnes is an accomplished pianist. His mother taught piano, and Barnes even wrote music for his graduation from between religion and philosophy. Among his influences Tillich. At seminary, Barnes studied systematic theology with an emphasis on American transcendentalism as a way to keep studying philosophy. He returned to systematize morality or study it in a broad view while One of the things that drew Barnes to the philosophy department at Memphis was its tradition in pluralism and a strong history of producing African - American philosophers. His research interests are primarily in moral philosophy, as well as African - American philosophy and ancient philosophy (particularly Aristotelian Ethics) insofar as they are subsumed under moral philosophy. Although only in his second year, he intends to combine these interests in a dissertation project, possibly by looking at a specific problem that arises in the African - American experience and finding an Aristotelian answer. Although his philosophical background is primarily analytic, he has found since coming to Memphis that being able to work on both sides of the fence and consider continental approaches to problems has been helpful. In the fall of 2012, Barnes was able to travel to University College at Cork (Ireland) and be a guest lecturer in two classes. In the first, he presented on Martha Nussbaum the second was on morality in the work of Frederick Douglass. As a part of the same trip, he also visited University College of Dublin and did a workshop on race and racism. All the participants in the workshop were Irish students, and they were receptive and eager to ask questions on the subject. Barnes reflects that although Nussbaum was a known figure, the students were unfamiliar with Alain Locke and Douglass. One of the specific topics that came up was the work on feminism Frederick Douglass did after visiting Ireland. academic philosophy. He has an interest in teaching applied ethics, as well as ethics more broadly construed and African - American philosophy. 7 Undergraduate Program The undergraduate program has had a successful past two years, with Dr. Hoke Robinson returning as Director of Undergraduate Advising and Dr. Somogy Varga taking over as advisor to The Undergraduate Philosophy Circle. Like our graduate students, our undergraduate majors are also quite accomplished. In 2012, Mallie Dennis received the Carroll R. Bowman Scholarship, which is awarded every year based on academic potential. Kevin Newton received the 2011 12 Outstanding Student in Philosophy award, which is granted to a graduating sen- ior in philosophy for academic achievement and departmental service. The Undergraduate Philosophy Circle continues to be a strong presence in the halls of Clement. It is a registered student organi- zation run by philosophy ma- jors, but welcome to any under- graduates with an interest in philosophy. For the 2012 - 13 led by President Vice President Mallie Dennis , and Sergeant - at - Arms Nick Tominello . They hold regular meetings and social events throughout the school year that involve lively de- bates about contemporary ethical and philosophical is- sues, bringing to life the important tradition of philoso- phical dialogue. They continue to advertise the depart- day. This year they have also started providing tutoring to students in philosophy classes in need of extra help. The philosophy circle once again held its an- nual Midsouth Undergraduate Philoso- phy Conference on February 16, 2013 in con- junction with the Midsouth Philosophy Confer- ence. This year the confer- ence was held at Rhodes Col- lege in Memphis. They re- ceived 50 undergraduate pa- per submissions from across the country and the UK, choosing 16 papers to be pre- sented for the event. David Gougelet graduated from Memphis in 2007. He wrote his dissertation on Michel Fou- pertain to the questions of race and population. After graduating from Memphis, he taught at American University in Washington D.C., for three years, and then moved on to Simpson College where he has been teaching for the past two years. In general, his research continues to focus on Fou- cault, and he has published on the concepts of race soon is a co - A Com- panion to Foucault (Blackwell). Of his time in Memphis, Gougelet says that the emphasis on giv- ing graduates a foundation in the history of philoso- phy, as well as on giving a pluralistic education, has helped him adapt to different departments. And continue to be quite close to the people I went to grad school with. There is an unmistakable connec- tion between those of us who either taught or stud- with Memphis people at conferences, where we stand out as a tight - Alumni Spotlight Undergraduate Alumni Spotlight We caught up with Michelle Bliss who earned a BA in Eng- lish Literature from The University of Memphis in May 2005, and then completed her philosophy degree in May 2006. What have you been doing since graduating? I attended The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys Law School, obtaining my J.D. in May 2009. That fall I began volunteering with the Political Science Department's Mock Trial Team as the outside coach. In Spring 2010, I began teaching as an adjunct instructor in the POLS department. I currently am a full time Instructor and the Departmental Advi- sor for the Political Science Department. I also serve as the Public Policy Chair for the Tennessee Equality Project and am active in local, state, and federal campaigns. How has your philosophy degree benefited you? My philosophy degree has given me useful critical reading and analytic skills. My ethics classes come in handy in my political work, as does my logic class. Having a fundamental knowledge of logical fallacies is very useful when constructing policy positions and arguments. I can honestly say, though, I have never used a truth table in real life, at least not yet. Are you using anything you learned in your current in line of work? I teach Intro to Ancient and Modern Political Thought. Al- though we look at political philosophy a bit differently in my department, my foundation of knowledge is based in what I learned in the philosophy department. I teach every thing from Plato's Republic to Marx. I admit I enjoy torturing freshmen with my lecture on the Theory of the Forms. David Gougelet Michelle Bliss 8 Undergraduate Spotlight Mallie Dennis is a senior set to graduate in December 2013 as a double major in Philosophy and French. Originally from Memphis, as a home - schooled student, she was able to set her own curriculum, and she was always interested in the history of ideas. After starting at The University of Memphis, she was an un- decided major for a long time. The rest of her family is in the medical field, but she was always more interested in writing than math or science. Her first philosophy course was an introductory course with Dr. Remy Debes, and becoming a philosophy major was a gradual process as her interest in- creased. One of the things she likes best about the philosophy depart- ment is the pluralism. Since declaring her major as philoso- phy, she has taken a course every semester with Dr. Debes. One of her favorites was a course on egoism that involved reading the works of Adam Smith and Mandeville. This has led to her doing research with Debes on Mandeville and hu- man dignity. Her knowledge of French has helped her in this endeavor, as Mandeville was influenced by French writers, some of whose work has not been translated into English. After taking her first continental philosophy course on Kristeva with Dr. Pleshette DeArmitt, her appreciation for both sides of the philosophical spectrum has grown, and she feels more compe- tent as a scholar. For a long time her plan was to go to law school, but she has been encour- aged by the faculty here to pursue a PhD in philosophy. Dennis is a mem- ber of the French Honor Society, the vice president of The Undergraduate Philosophy Circle, and in 2012, she was the recipient of the Carol Bowman Award, given by the philosophy de- partment every year to an outstanding undergraduate. Of her time spent in the philosophy department at Memphis, included, and teachers have made sure that the environment idea there was such a strong department when I started here; before this department I never felt like I belonged anywhere. For the fall of 2012, Philoso- phical Horizons continued its outreach and develop- ment. Working with Westside Middle School, The University of Memphis Campus School, and the Lipman School, our three graduate and three un- dergraduate volunteers were able to discuss a variety of questions and, more impor- tantly, develop their philoso- phical instincts. In the future, the plan is expansion. By working with contacts at MCS and the new Achievement School District, Philosophical Horizons will have a presence in more schools in the spring of 2013 and beyond. Graduate student Sarah Marshall shares this anecdote from her work with Philosophical Horizons in the spring of 2012: 10th grade English class. Early on, we found it difficult to en- gage the students through the use of traditional texts. Consequently, we tried different strategies for prompt- ing philosophical discussion, including group work, dra- matic skits, and examples from international poli- tics. However, our most effective prompt by far was popu- lar music. The students were interested in questions surrounding beauty, they asked: How come some people who you find unattractive at first become beautiful once you get to know them or vice versa? Does beauty change? Are there different kinds of beauty? To facilitate the conversation, Lucas and I brought in two The songs presented different perspectives regarding what makes someone beautiful. Drake complimented character attributes like intelligence, Nicki Minaj endorsed material wealth, and Wale focused on physical attributes. This prompted the students to engage in a rich discussion, in which they drew on their own experiences to reflect on and challenge common conceptions of beauty. phical considerations a relevant context in which to frame the discussion, and being able to access meaningful every- day experience provided a source for us to draw on through- out the remainder of the semester. Now anytime my car ra- dio is tuned to something other than WEVL or public radio, Philosophical Horizons Before this department I never felt like I belonged another face. Mallie Dennis Undergraduate philosophy student Harrison Chapman reads to chil- dren at the Campus School. 9 The Ida B. Wells conference continues its tradition at The University of Memphis. The 6 th Annual conference was organ- ized by graduate students Corey Barnes and William Allen along with Dr. Luvell Anderson . It was held No- vember 16 - 17, 2012 and fea- tured guest speakers Charles Mills (Northwestern Univer- sity), author of The Racial Con- tract (Cornell University Press, 1997) and, more recently, Con- tract and Domination (with Carol Pateman, Polity Press, Two Memphis graduate students presented their work at the 2012 conference with William Allen State of War: The Life of Disadvantaged Communities in Jordan Liz ues to be a forum for visiting undergraduate students to not only present their work, but to engage in discussion about African - American philosophy to which the phi- losophy department at Memphis remains dedicated. The year 2012 marked the 150 th birthday of Ida B. Wells, the namesake of the conference. The conference contin- ues to be a celebration of the legacy of Wells, who, for more than 40 years was an anti - lynching crusader, spoke out against racial issues, and a civil rights pioneer who was one of the founders of the NAACP. The Erasmus Mundus program continues to bring in students from Europe to study for a semester in the philosophy depart- ment. In the Spring of 2012, Michael Stadler was one of our visiting students and was happy to share with us his experience with the Erasmus Mundus program: southern Germany. After high school, I went to the Netherlands to do my undergraduate study in both Cultural Studies and Phi- losophy. I lived there for four years before joining the Erasmus Mundus program. The Erasmus Mundus program consists of two years. While you as a student can choose the university where you want to study during the second year, the universities where you study for the first and second semester of the first year are chosen for you by the organization of the master. Memphis was the second semes- ter of the first year for me. It was chosen according to the phi- losophical interests I listed in my application. The first semester of the first year I was in Luxembourg, which now is no longer part of the program. For the second year of the master I chose Prague, where I am right now. Prague fit the best with my philosophical interests for the last year. I am interested in traditional and contemporary metaphysics, ontology, and aesthetics, including the philosophy of literature and culture. My master's thesis will be about the German phi- losopher Heinrich Rombach (1923 - 2004). In his work, he com- bines some very original ideas of ontology, phenomenology, hermetics (as opposed to hermeneutics), and picture theory to a very well elaborated and unique whole. I will try to interpret some of his ideas in the framework of the Kantian schematism and the Ida B. Wells Conference Erasmus Mundus Spotlight so - Mark Johnson and George Lakoff. As my philosophical interests are very broad, they fit very well with the three classes I had Philosophy of Right , French philosophy of the 20th century, and modal logic. In the end, I think that under the right conception everything in phi- losophy is combinable, and the stronger your theory is and the more open your mind, the more everything makes sense in its plurality. Even modal logic. From the first moments of my arrival in Memphis until the very last seconds, the so - called southern hospitality was omnipres- ent. There were so many truly helpful and generous people (fellow students, teachers, people from the international office, good - humored and curious workers in the all - you - can - eat res- taurants on campus, random people on the street) all the time, that I never felt lost, but always integrated. This was a very good experience. Furthermore, I liked the campus and the free sport facilities, not to mention the BBQ and the music down on Beale Street. (I only wish that there would be more public eign student normally you don't have a car.) I just wanted to cordially thank all the members of the depart- ment of philosophy at the UofM, who in one way or the other contributed to the wonderful time I had in the United States. I am glad that Memphis is part of the Erasmus Mundus program and I hope that they will be until the end, so that many more students from Europe can benefit from the US - American educational Michael visiting Graceland 10 The University of Memphis has expanded to the Lambuth Campus location in Jackson, TN, and the philosophy de- partment was fortunate enough to expand there too, with the hiring of Dr. Lucien Manning Garrett . The Lam- buth Campus is a branch campus that was once Lambuth University, which ceased operations in June 2011. The Uni- versity of Memphis, along with the city of Jackson, Madison Country, West Tennessee Healthcare, and the Jackson En- ergy Authority worked together to open the school as a branch campus in the fall of 2011. Dr. Garrett had been a professor at Lambuth University at the time of its closing. In the fall of 2012, he offered courses in ethics and the philosophy of religion. Online B.A. The face of education is changing in our ever - increasing technological world, and the philosophy department is changing with it! In the fall of 2010, the philosophy department began offering undergraduate courses online; this is still expanding and i s even closer to offering a B.A. in philosophy that can be completed entirely online (or in combination with on - campus courses) with a concentration in applied ethics. In addition to courses in Elementary Logic, Biomedical Ethics, and Contemporary Moral Problems, the program now includes Introductory Philosophy, Introductory Ethics, Environmental Ethics, African - American Philosophy, and Philosophy of Food. The program focuses on ethical theory and ethical problem - solving in the con- text of a number of professional domains including medicine, law, and business. Although the concentration is on ethics, the program also provides core courses to establish a foundation in the history of philosophy and logic, with history of ancient phi- losophy, history of modern philosophy, and philosophy of law courses in development. The University of Memphis has a growing number of online programs, all accredited through the Southern Association of Col- leges and Schools. This enables students to not only take their philosophy classes online, but their general education credit s a s well. Degrees and transcripts are identical in substance and appearance to those earned by on - campus students with the con- venience of flexibility and portability. The department has hired Dr. Melissa Ebbers as online coordinator for this program. She received her B.A. in Philosophy and B.S. in Psychology at The Ohio State University, her M.A. in Philosophy from Western Michigan University, and her PhD in philosophy from University of Maryland. Her primary research interests include philosophy of language, philosophy of mind, and philosophy of food (including food ethics). Contact her for more information via the form found at http:// memphis.edu/ecampus/undergrad/ba_philosophy.php Lambuth Campus Expansion Softball Champs In the spring of 2012, the English Department issued a chal- lenge to the Philosophy Department in the form of an interde- partmental softball game. Held at a neutral location, our phi- losophy department went on to an overwhelming victory of 19 The Repub- lic that both musike and gymnastike Back row (L to R): Corey Barnes, Lucas Olsen, Alfonso Gis- combe, Nick Drozd, Michael Burroughs, Barrett Schwarz, Shaun Gallagher, Tom Nenon, Dan Larkin, Stephan Blatti, Remy Debes. Front row (L to R): Deb Tollefsen, Cheri Carr, Sarah Marshall 11 Private gifts are increasingly important, as support from state and federal sources decline. Every investment makes a differe nce . opportunities more often. To remain competitive with our peer institutions, gifts to the Philosophy Department Enrichment Fund help: attract and retain high - caliber faculty members and students; provide additional scholarship dollars to our undergraduates; increase graduate stipends; and assist with scholarly travel. MAKE A GIFT TODAY! ___Yes, I want to join other alumni and friends in making a gift in support of the Philosophy Enrichment Fund. Enclosed is my gift in the amount of $____________________ made payable to the University of Memphis Foundation (with the specification that it be in support of the Philosophy Enrichment Fund). To give by credit card or automatic draft, please visit waystogive.php or call 901.678.3953. The human resources department of your company can supply you with appropriate information and forms, which should be returned along with your gift. Please return this form to: Development Office College of Arts and Sciences 107 Scates Hall The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Name: _____________________________________________________ Degree/Year (if applicable): _______________________________________ Address: ____________________________________________________ E - mail: _____________________________________________________ Phone Number: _______________________________________________ Your Support is Vital 12 Contact Department of Philosophy University of Memphis 327 Clement Hall Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901 - 678 - 2535 Fax: 901 - 678 - 4365 E - mail: philosophy@memphis.edu Web: philosophy Faculty List Luvell Anderson , Assistant Professor, philosophy of language, philosophy of race, semantics Stephan Blatti , Assistant Professor & Editor of The Southern Journal of Philosophy , metaphysics, philosophy of mind Pleshette DeArmitt , Assistant Profes- sor, feminist theory, psychoanalysis, con- temporary continental philosophy Remy Debes , Associate Professor, eth- ics, moral psychology, philosophy of emotion, Scottish Enlightenment, Hume, Adam Smith Shaun Gallagher , Professor & Moss Chair of Excllence, phenomenology, phi- losophy of mind, philosophical psychol- ogy Bill Lawson , Distinguished Professor & Graduate Admissions Director, African - American philosophy, social and political philosophy Mary Beth Mader , Associate Profes- sor, 20th century continental philosophy, feminist theory, continental philosophy and the life sciences, ontology Thomas Nenon , Professor & Vice Provost, Husserl, Heidegger, Kant and German ideal- ism, hermeneutics, philosophy of the social sciences Hoke Robinson , Professor & Director of Undergraduate Studies, Kant, rationalism, history of modern philosophy Timothy Roche , Associate Professor, Greek philosophy, history of moral philosophy, ethi- cal theory Kas Saghafi , Associate Professor & Director of Graduate Studies, contemporary continen- tal philosophy, aesthetics, philosophy and lit- erature John Tienson , Professor , philosophy of mind, metaphysics, philosophy of language, British empiricists Deborah Tollefsen , Professor & Depart- ment Chair, philosophy of mind, epistemol- ogy, social ontology Somogy Varga , Assistant Professor, philoso- phy of psychiatry/mind, moral psychology, social philosophy