#http://www.memphis.edu/law/faculty-staff/adjunct-faculty.php
Adjunct Faculty - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Home School of Law Faculty Adjunct Faculty ADJUNCT FACULTY Skip to Legal Methods Adjunct Faculty Tony Alexander- tony.d.alexander@gmail.com Robert Banks - rbanks@memphis.edu Leo Bearman, Jr. - lbearman@bakerdonelson.com Allen S. Blair, Esquire -ablair@harrisshelton.com David Case- dwcase@olemiss.edu Prince C. Chambliss, Jr., Esquire - Prince.chambliss@gmail.com; pcchmbls@memphis.edu The Honorable Christopher Craft - Christopher.Craft@shelbycountytn.gov John D. Fabian - john.fabian@usdoj.gov Richard Glassman - rglassman@gewwlaw.com Douglas F. Halijan, Esquire - dhalijan@BPJLAW.com General Albert Harvey - harveya@thomasonlaw.com Hunter R. Humphreys - hhumphreys@glankler.com Carl Jacobson - cjacobson@pcplc.com The Honorable Judge David Kennedy - dkennedy@tnwb.uscourts.gov Jennifer S. Kiesewetter - jkiesewetter@kiesewetterfirm.com Hayden D. Lait, Esquire - haydenlait@gmail.com Jon Lakey - jlakey@pcplc.com The Honorable Jennie D. Latta - Jennie_d_lattta@tnwb.uscourts.gov Lawrence J. Laurenzi - larry.laurenzi@usdoj.gov Elissa Mulrooney - emm@brattononeal.com Steve McDaniel, Esquire - smcdaniel@wmww.com Gigi Gaerig McGown - gigi.mcgown@ipaper.com Vincent Miraglia, Chief Council - vmiraglia@yahoo.com; Vincent.miraglia@ipaper.com E. Haavi Morreim, JD, PhD - h-morreim@comcast.net John F. Murrah, Esquire - jmurrah@evanspetree.com Jennifer Nichols, Esquire - jennifer.nichols@scdag.com Stephen C. Parker - Steve.parker@usdoj.gov The Honorable Charles E. Pazar - Charles.Pazar@usdoj.gov Vandana Peterson - vandana.peterson@gmail.com Dorothy J. Pounders - dorothypounders@gmail.com Jackie G. Prester, Esquire - jprester@bakerdonelson.com Earle J. Schwarz - eschwarz@earle-schwarz.com Stephen Shields, Esquire - sshields@jsyc.com Jonathan Skrmetti - jonathan.skrmetti@butlersnow.com Bryan K. Smith - bsmith@pcplc.com David W. Spence - dws1556@gmail.com The Honorable Mark Ward - Mark.ward@shelbycountytn.gov David Wade - dwade@martintate.com Josh Whitehead, AICP - josh.whitehead@memphistn.gov Legal Methods Adjunct Faculty - 2014-2015 Randy Alden Randy Alden is a graduate of Ashland University (B.A., magna cum laude, 1989) and the Ohio State University College of Law (J.D., 1992). He is an Assistant Federal Defender with the Federal Public Defender's Office for the Western District of Tennessee. He specializes in complex criminal litigation and is the Sentencing Resource Counsel for the District. Prior to joining the Federal Public Defender's office, Prof. Alden practiced at firms in Ohio and West Virginia. Prof. Alden also served in the United States Army Reserve, Civil Affairs Branch, where he earned a Bronze Star for Meritorious Service during Operation Enduring Freedom, as well as numerous other awards. Prof. Alden retired from the Reserve on December 31, 2012 with the rank of Major after 28 years of enlisted and commissioned service. David Bell David Bell is a graduate of Earlham College (B.A., 1998) and the University of Memphis School of Law (J.D., 2003). In law school, Prof. Bell was a member of two National Moot Court Competition teams and served as Associate Chief Justice of the Moot Court Board. He received the Dean's Distinguished Service Award and the Moore Award for Outstanding Advocate in his class. After law school, Prof. Bell was an Assistant Public Defender for Shelby County, Tennessee, and practiced primarily as a trial litigator before the Criminal Courts. He has been named a Shelby County Outstanding Performer and is a graduate of the Memphis Bar Association's Leadership Forum. Prof. Bell currently works as an Assistant Federal Defender in Memphis and has practiced before the Courts of the Eastern and Western Divisions of the Western District of Tennessee, as well as before the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. Tannera George Gibson Tannera George Gibson is a graduate of the University of Memphis (B.S., 2003) and the University of Memphis School of Law (J.D., 2008). Prof. Gibson is currently a litigation associate with Burch Porter &amp; Johnson, PLLC. She is an active member of the legal community who has been recognized by the Memphis Bar Association for her commitment to pro bono work. Prof. Gibson was named Outstanding Associate for the Leo Bearman, Sr. American Inns of Court for 2011-2012, and also serves on the Board of Directors for the non-profit organization Citizens for Inner City Progress. Philip Oliphant After earning an M.B.A. in finance from UCLA and following a successful career as a database developer in New York's banking industry, Philip Oliphant returned to the classroom as a law student at Vanderbilt University in 2003. Upon graduating with his J.D. in 2006, Prof. Oliphant clerked for Judge Bernice Donald of the United States District Court for Western Division of Tennessee. In 2007, he became an Assistant City Attorney for the City of Memphis, where he has defended the City in countless tort and contract suits in state court, as well as constitutional claims in federal court. Prof. Oliphant has also successfully argued twice before the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. In 2011, Judge Bernice Donald was elevated to the Sixth Circuit and asked Prof. Oliphant to serve as her chief of staff, which he did for two years. In August 2013, he returned to the City Attorney's office where he has played a leadership role in modernizing that office, in addition to maintaining a very busy litigation caseload. Shea Oliver Shea B. Oliver is a graduate of the University of Memphis (B.F.A., magna cum laude, 2002) and the University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law (J.D., summa cum laude, 2010). While in law school, she served as the Senior Notes Editor of The University of Memphis Law Review. Following law school, Prof. Oliver clerked for the Honorable Jon P. McCalla, the then-sitting Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the Western District of Tennessee. Prof. Oliver is currently a litigation associate with Burch Porter &amp; Johnson, PLLC where she focuses on intellectual property matters and commercial litigation. Prof. Oliver also serves on the Board of Directors of the Humane Society of Memphis &amp; Shelby County. Kevin Ritz Kevin Ritz is a graduate of the University of Virginia (B.A. with high distinction, 1997), Georgetown University (M.S., 1999), and the University of Virginia School of Law (J.D., Order of the Coif, 2004). At law school, he served as Book Reviews Editor for the Virginia Law Review and won numerous prizes and awards. Prof. Ritz clerked for the Honorable Julia Gibbons, United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. He currently works as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the United States Attorney's Office, Western District of Tennessee, where he is the Criminal Appellate Chief and Special Counsel to the U.S. Attorney. He is a member of the U.S. Department of Justice's Appellate Chiefs Working Group and teaches Appellate Advocacy at the National Advocacy Center in Columbia, South Carolina. Rajiv Singh Rajiv Singh is a graduate of Vanderbilt University (1989) and the University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law (J.D., 2000). In law school, he served as Research Editor for the Tennessee Journal of Practice and Procedure. Prof. Singh currently works as a Senior Attorney at Federal Express Corporations in its Business Transactions Group. Jennifer Sink Jennifer Sink is a graduate of Florida State University (B.S.) and Southern Illinois University School of Law (J.D., cum laude, 2003). In law school, Prof. Sink served as the Editor in Chief of the Southern Illinois University Law Journal. She also served on the Appellate Division of the law school's Moot Court Board. Prof. Sink is now a shareholder with Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell &amp; Berkowitz, P.C. Prof. Sink specializes in health care litigation and has been named a Mid-South Rising Star by Super Lawyers Magazine. Prof. Sink also serves as legal counsel for the non-profit organization Dress for Success. Sarah-Katherine Wright Sarah-Katherine Wright is a graduate of Rhodes College (B.A., 2007) and the University of Tennessee College of Law (J.D., summa cum laude, 2010). While in law school, Prof. Wright served as a staff editor for the Tennessee Journal of Law &amp; Policy and the Tennessee Law Review. After graduating from the University of Tennessee College of Law, Prof. Wright worked as a litigation associate for Butler, Vines &amp; Babb PLLC in Knoxville, Tennessee. Prof. Wright is currently a managing attorney with Realty Title &amp; Escrow Company, a regional real estate firm. Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .