#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/fcbe/fir.php
(FIR) FINANCE, INSURANCE AND REAL ESTATE - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions (FIR) FINANCE, INSURANCE AND REAL ESTATE FIR (FIR) FINANCE, INSURANCE AND REAL ESTATE P.K. Jain, Ph.D.,Interim Chair Room 402, FCBE Administration Building Students must have earned a minimum of 45 credit hours and have met specific course prerequisites with a minimum grade of “C” to be eligible for all 3000 and 4000 level courses. In addition to these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower division business courses with a minimum grade of “C” in each; (2) minimum of 2.25 GPA (2.5 for accounting majors) in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1830, 1421, or 1910, and (3) 45 hours of course work including MATH 1830, 1421, or 1910, COMM 2381 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements-General Requirements). A surcharge of $35 per credit hour for 3000 and 4000 level courses and $35 per credit hour for 6000-9000 level courses has been approved by the Tennessee Board of Regents. The purpose of the surcharge on these business courses is to guarantee the continuous improvement of the college and compliance with the standards of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business International (AACSB International). In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: FIR 4110-19. Special Topics. (3). Current topics in one of following areas: Finance, Insurance, Real Estate, or Business Law. Topics are varied and in online class listings. May be repeated once with change in topic area. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. FIR 1220 - Personal Finance Management (3) (2220). Non-technical course covering areas of personal budgeting, borrowing and credit, insurance, home ownership, investment, taxes, entrepreneurship, and family financial planning. FIR 3220 - Personal Investing (3) To assist individual investors of all backgrounds in development and monitoring of an investment portfolio by explaining possible investment alternatives including terminology and analysis techniques to fulfill future financial goals. NOTE: Open to all University students. NOTE: this course may not be counted toward fulfilling the requirements for the Finance major. FIR 3310 - Real Estate Principles (3) Basic terminology, principles and issues; market analysis, real estate law, instruments, legal descriptions, appraisal, investment, finance, brokerage, property management. Designed for non-real estate majors as well as a foundation for further study. FIR 3410 - Financial Management (3) Fundamentals of financial management; time value of money, identifying financial risk, valuation of bonds and stock, cost of capital and capital budgeting. PREREQUISITE: ACCT 2010, ECON 2020, and either SCMS 2710 or MATH 1530. FIR 3710 - Investments (3) Principles of investment in stocks and bonds. Includes fundamental, economic, and technical analysis; measurable and unmeasurable aspects of risk; portfolio management; psychological aspects of the market. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410. FIR 3720 - Financial Markets (3) Survey of important funds markets, institutions and characteristics peculiar to them; sources of supply of and demand for funds in each market, and complex interrelations among several markets analyzed. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410. FIR 3810 - Principles of Risk/Insurance (3) Nature and handling of risk in personal and business situations; emphasis on property, liability and life exposures to loss. Designed for non-insurance major as well as a basis for advanced study. FIR 4011 - Estate Planning and Law Tax (3) Survey of law of taxation as applied to transmission of property by gift or death and its impact upon accumulations of wealth; estate planning from individual viewpoint designed to create, maintain, and distribute maximum estate possible. FIR 4310 - Real Estate Law (3) Law and legal instruments as applied to real estate; needs of property owners and those engaged in real estate business. FIR 4320 - Real Estate Finance (3) Terminology, legislation, principles, and analytical techniques pertaining to financing of real estate; perspective of lender, residential borrower, and income property borrower. FIR 4331 - Stock Portfolio Mgmt (3) Development and monitoring of investment portfolio by explaining possible investment alternatives; terminology and analysis techniques necessary to fulfill future financial goals. Undergraduate students will assist graduate students in managing a real equity portfolio of $500,000. FIR 4340 - Real Estate Appraisal (3) Basic terminology, principles, procedures, and issues; nature of value, principles of value, appraisal process, market approach, cost approach, capitalization of income approach, gross rent multiplier approach, and appraisal reports. FIR 4350 - Real Estate Investment (3) Principles and practices reviewed and evaluated; investment strategy, ownership forms, tax implications, cash flow analysis, measures of return, risk management, and property selection. FIR 4440 - Intermediate Managerial Fin (3) Analytical approaches to firm's financial decisions; current asset management, capital budgeting, cost of capital, capital structure determination, and dividend policy. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410. FIR 4550 - International Finance (3) Financing international trade and investments; foreign exchange markets and exchange rates; balance of payments; current developments in international financial cooperation. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410. FIR 4610 - Cases Managerial Finance (3) Application of tools and principles introduced in previous courses to develop up-to-date problem solving techniques; cases approached from standpoint of top level management and utilize both quantitative and qualitative analysis. PREREQUISITE: FIR 4440. FIR 4710 - Commercial Banking (3) Study of bank management and bank regulation; examination of conditions and regulations affecting banking decisions; exploration of current theories of profitable bank operations. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410. FIR 4720 - Mgmt of Financial Institutns (3) Study of management of institutions considering current economic environments, financial policies, risk management and decision-making worldwide; consistent with existing standards of profitability, liquidity and solvency. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410. FIR 4721 - Financial Derivative Markets (3) (3770). Introduction to futures, options, forwards, and swaps (widely used by investment firms and corporations to manage financial risks), with primary emphasis on their practical application in financial and commodity markets. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3710. FIR 4730 - Financial Anlys/Certification (3) Preparation for careers in financial markets; development of investment skills for personal financial planning such as savings and retirement; certifications. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410. FIR 4770 - Security Analysis/Port Mgmt (3) Development of techniques for finding actual worth of securities, primarily stocks and bonds; selection, timing, diversification, and other aspects of supervising investment funds. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3710. FIR 4810 - Prop & Liability Insurance I (3) Forms and functions of fire, marine, automobile, general liability and other types of property and liability insurance; emphasis on business and industrial applications. FIR 4820 - Life and Health Insurance (3) Functions of life and health insurance; emphasis on economic security needs, human behavior and the problems related to death and dying; individual life, health and annuity contracts and social insurance; concepts in risk selections and regulation. FIR 4870 - Risk Management (3) Adresses problems faced by risk managers encompassing traditional aspects of risk management and insurance including insurance, reinsurance, hedging and capital markets as tools to manage or mitigate risk. PREREQUISITE: FIR 3410. FIR 4910 - Problems in FIR (1-3) Student will carry on approved research projects in the major area under supervision of staff members. PREREQUISITE: senior standing and permission of department chair. FIR 4911 - Internship in FIR (1-6) Internship in business organization to gain on-the-job experience in real-life environment. Project to be approved and supervised by department faculty. Credit allowed only after acceptance of report. PREREQUISITE: 2.75 overall GPA and completed 15 hours in Upper Division core. FIR 4996 - Senior Honors Thesis (3) Independent research open only to those students enrolled in the honors program. Thesis supervised by area faculty member. PREREQUISITE: senior standing and permission of the Director of the College Honors Program. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .