#http://www.memphis.edu/umtech/solutions/iprint.php
iPrint - umTech - Information Technology Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. umTech - Information Technology Services Service Support Teaching Smart Tech Students Solutions Find Solutions iPrint OU Campus Software Faculty/Staff Students Hardware Faculty/Staff Students Remedyforce umApps umMail umSurvey umWiki umWireless Virtual Private Network (VPN) Home umTech - Information Technology Services Find Solutions iPrint iPrint iPrint is a wireless printing system that allows students to take advantage of printing services available at all Technology Access Fee (TAF) funded printers on campus. To find a list of the these areas, visit the Computer Labs/Smart Classrooms website. Getting Started with iPrint Install the iPrint/PaperCut system on your computer. This installation only has to be completed once. Choose Print in your program (Word, Excel, etc.,) and select iPrint as your printer. Browse the iPrint.memphis.edu website and select "Release Print Job". Log in using your UUID and password and select the Release "Print Jobs" tab. Locate your print job and click Print. You can find Windows, Mac and Linux instructions are available at: . Be sure the iPrint/Papercut client is running on your computer. You'll see the small icon in the lower right side of your toolbar. Please note, printing requires an active account and a sufficient amount of Print Funds in your free quota or personal balance. Email to Print Email to Print is a wireless printing system that allows any web-enabled, mobile, portable device to print documents simply by sending an email to any printing kiosks located throughout campus. For step by step directions. Web Print Web Print is a wireless printing system that allows any web-enabled, mobile, portable device to print documents simply by sending an email to any printing kiosks located throughout campus. For step by step directions. Print Funds Checking Print Funds Balance You can check your balance by logging into iprint.memphis.edu In addition, your balance will appear in the top, right corner of any TigerLAN computer after log-in. Free Quota Currently enrolled students receive a printing allotment of 500 pages per semester to use for the term. The 500-page semester allotment is available the Friday before the semester begins. Any unused pages at the end of the semester are non-refundable and do not roll over to the next semester. Purchasing Additional Funds/Pages Funds may be purchased at two variations in increments of 100 pages ($5). The University Bookstore in the form of a Print Funds Card (which are available at the check out counter). You may use Tiger Funds to purchase a Print Fund Card Follow the Steps on the card to redeem the code. Funds will be available for use immediately after card processing. Online To add print funds online, go to iPrint and select Add Print Funds from the top menu. Note: Individual purchases are non-refundable, but pages will roll over to the next semester. If added funds have not posted within 24 hours please contact the umTech Service Desk at 901.678.8888. Please keep the Responsible Printing Initiative in mind when printing. The Responsible Printing Initiative (RPI) is an SGA/ITS cooperative designed to fairly distribute printing resources, reduce waste and eliminate abuse. Printing utilizes more than just paper. Printing costs cover the following: Paper Toner Printers Software Servers Maintenance We hope to make printing easy for UofM students. However, if you need assistance, please contact the umTech Service Desk at 901.678.8888. Find Solutions iPrint OU Campus Software Faculty/Staff Students Hardware Faculty/Staff Students Remedyforce umApps umMail umSurvey umWiki umWireless Virtual Private Network (VPN) Let Us Help! Call 901.678.8888. Available Now. Chat Live Monday - Friday 8:00 am - 7:00 pm CDT Ask Tom Search this collection of questions and answers to find solutions to a variety of technical problems. New Service Desk System Learn more about the new service support system. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .