#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/news-events/sophia/2010_sophia.pdf
1 Issue 2 / Fall 2010 Sophia From the Chair Welcome to the second edition of Sophia , a new s letter from the Department of Philoso phy at the University of Memphis . A few months ago, I received an email message from a former undergraduate philosophy major. She has gone on to pursue a PhD in English and was writing to say that the training she received from our department, particularly her ability to read a text carefully and write about it in a clear and concise fashion, prepared her well for graduate study at a prestigious East Coast university. It was a wonderful email to receive. There is nothing more gratifying than to hear praise from students with a rigorous philosophical training that spans a variety of historical and methodological traditions. Our faculty are top - notch scholars, but just as importan t, they are exceptional teachers . I am very pleased to announce that we will have yet another top - notch scholar and exceptional teacher join our ranks in the fall of 2011. Dr. Shaun Gallagher will join us as the Lillian and Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence in Philosophy. With research interests that include phenomenology, philosophy of mind, philosophical psy chol ogy, embodiment, intersubjectivity, hermeneutics, and the philosophy of time, Prof. Gallagher complements our continental and feminist philosophy strengths and at the same time contrib utes to various core issues in analytic philosophy. Our department has always been known for its philosophical pluralism. We now have a chair of excellence that embodies this pluralistic approach. You can read more about Prof. Gallagher below. You will also be able to read about some of the marvelous things our faculty, students, and alumni have done this year. I am continually amazed by their professional achievements , and I know you will be too. We are very proud of our alums and department friends and would very much like to hear from you. I encourage you to share with us news about what you are doing now and let us know if you would like to be involved in supporting your Depart ment of Philosophy. Deb Tollefsen New Chair of Excellence Dr. Shaun Gallagher will be joining the Philosophy Department at the University of Memphis as the Lillian and Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence in Philosophy in the fall of 2011. After completing an MA in Philosophy at Villanova University, working with John Caputo and Thomas Busch, Galla- gher completed his PhD at Bryn Mawr College, writing a dissertation on the phenomenology of temporality and embodiment under the supervision of George L. Kline and Spanish philosopher José Ferrator - Mora. Gallagher also studied at Louvain with Jacques Taminiaux, who acted as an external director on his dissertation. Gallagher also completed an MA in Economics at SUNY - Buffalo. He earned tenure at Canisius College in Buffalo, NY, and then served as Professor and Chair of the Philosophy Department (2003 08), and Director of the Cognitive Sciences Program at the University of Central Florida, where he has been part of the senior research faculty at the Insti- tute of Simulation and Training as well. He holds a secondary appointment as Research Professor of Philosophy and Cognitive Science at the University of Hertfordshire (UK). Prof. Gallagher has been an invited Visiting Scientist at the Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge, UK (1994), Visiting Professor at the University of Copenhagen (2005, 2006, 2007), and most recently at the Centre de Recherche en Epistémelogie Appliquée (CREA), Paris (2009 10), and at the Ecole Normale Supériure, Lyon (2008, 2010). In 2007, he delivered the Rudolf Carnap Lectures at the Ruhr - Universität Bochum, Germany, and in 2012 he will spend three months as Visiting Professor at the Humboldt University in Berlin. ( continued on page 10 ) Department of Philosophy 2 Visiting Professors Dr. Bryan Smyth joined us as Visiting Professor in the fall of 2008. Born and raised in Toronto, he received his BA and MA in philosophy from the Univer sity of Waterloo. A portion of his under graduate studies were done at Karl - Franzens - Universität in Graz, Austria. He wrote his dissertation on Maurice Merleau - Ponty and received his PhD from McGill Uni- versity (Montréal). Bryan also received a profondies) in philosophy from the Uni versité Paris 1. His general interest is in social and politi - cal philosophy more specifically, in the relationships be- tween selfhood, intersub jectivity, and world. Prof. Smyth was awarded the SPEP 2010 Junior Scholar Award for a paper on Michel Foucault and Ludwig Binswanger. He has recent and forthcoming articles in Chiasmi Interna- tional , PhaenEx , Philosophy Today , and Continental Phi- losophy Review . He is currently working on themes in Mer- leau - - nology of perception, and a translation of Merleau - first lectures at the Collège de France. Dr. László Tengelyi , Professor of Philosophy at the Ber- gische Universität in Wuppertal, Germany, joined us as Visiting Professor for the fall 2009 semester. He co - taught Wiley - Blackwell Publishes the SJP After nearly a half - century of self - publication and eighteen months of preparation, The Southern Journal of Philosophy has gone pro. As of the March 2010 issue, the SJP now appears under the imprint of its new publisher, Wiley - Blackwell. Through increased exposure and assorted logis- tical and cosmetic updates, the partnership with Wiley - Blackwell broadens the appeal and deep- ens the impact of the work published in the SJP . Already, the journal cover has been given a fresh look, there is a new homepage, and authors and reviewers now submit their manuscripts and re- ports electronically via the ScholarOne Manu- already online and access to SJP content is freely available to all University of Memphis faculty, staff, and students. The SJP remains steadfast in its belief that the arc of philosophical progress bends toward pluralism. This commitment to first - class work undertaken from a diversity of perspectives and methodologies is evident in the composi- tion of our newly established Editorial Board, whose membership reflects a roughly equal distribution of leading analytic philosophers, continental phi- losophers, and historians of philosophy. A representative sample of the work of this distinguished group is on display in our special March 2010 issue. colleagues at Wiley - Blackwell, and the faculty and staff of the Department of Philosophy for making all of this possible. Special thanks are due to Nancy Simco, whose brief history of the SJP kicks off the March issue. For over three decades, Nancy served as Editor of this journal and as a strong advocate for the profession by making a donation to the lecture series named in her honor. Editor Stephan Blatti, Univ. of Memphis Editorial Board Rachel Barney, Univ. of Toronto Robert Bernasconi, Penn State Univ. William Blattner, Georgetown Univ. Tina Chanter, DePaul Univ. Tamar Szabó Gendler, Yale Univ. Hannah Ginsborg, Univ. of Calif., Berkeley Sandy Goldberg, Northwestern Univ. David Henderson, Univ. of Nebraska Terry Horgan, Univ. of Arizona Len Lawlor, Penn State Univ. Catherine Malabou, Université Paris X - Nanterre Linda Martín - Alcoff, City Univ. of New York Christopher Pincock, Purdue Univ. Tad Schmaltz, Univ. of Michigan Alan Schrift, Grinnell College Tommie Shelby, Harvard Univ. David Shoemaker, Tulane Univ. Paul Snowdon, University College London Amie Thomasson, Univ. of Miami John Tienson, Univ. of Memphis Mark Timmons, Univ. of Arizona Rebecca Walker, Univ. of North Carolina, Chapel Hill Alison Wylie, Univ. of Washington Gideon Yaffe, Univ. of Southern California Jack Zupko, Univ. of Winnipeg Paul Hammond, PhD student Dr. Alexander Schnel l is Lecturer at the Université de Paris Sorbonne and coordinator of the Erasmus Mundus Euro - Philosophie Program. He visited us in the spring of 2010 as part of Erasmus Mundus. He co - taught a seminar Not many grad students have a chance to take a class from a significant European scholar; it made me really thankful to be part of this program. 3 Prof. Miller, What A Year! Congratulations to Prof. Sarah Clark Miller for an extra - ordinary year. This fall she was granted tenure and promo- tion to Associate Professor, an accomplishment that reflects her research and teaching success. Prof. Miller received several awards during this academic year. She was honored as the first recipient of the March of Bioethic ber 2009. She also received the Early Career Research Award from the University of Mem- phis. She was awarded the 2009 - 10 the Student Out- standing Faculty Award that honors a University of Mem- phis faculty member who has been nominated by a student with a disability. The award comfortable discussing issues of disability. The student nominee submits an essay that details ways that the faculty member has shown an understanding of disability and a willingness to learn about disability, gives examples of how the faculty member demonstrates a will- ingness to assist the student as a learner, and explains dent and his or her abilities while acknowledging issues of disability. Kristy Millican wrote of Prof. Miller in her nomination learning style, and while accommodating these learning styles, she is able to provide many real life examples to Sarah Clark Miller and nominee Kristy Millican at the Awards Ceremony . Spindel Conference took place October 7 9, 2010. Prof. Remy Debes served as the conference director, leading the way to an exciting and successful engagement with this timely topic. conference featured three key- note speakers: Stephen Dar- wall (Yale), John Deigh (UT Austin), and Peter Goldie (U. Manchester). Also on the pro- gram were papers delivered by David Shoemaker (Tulane), Amy Coplan (Cal State Fullerton), Michael Slote (U. Miami), Kar- sten Stueber (Holy Cross), and Jesse Prinz (CUNY). For the first time, the Spindel Conference also featured an Emerging Scholar Prize Essay, which drew essays from a number of rising scholars. The five finalists were Oxley, and Tina Rulli. The winning essay by Josh May (UC Santa Barbara) was featured in a special breakfast session on Friday morning; it will be published along with the conference proceedings in the supple- ment to The Southern Journal of Philosoph y. The runner - up in the essay competition, Mavis Biss (U. Wisconsin - Madison), chaired the breakfast session. The re- maining participants prepared poster presentations that were featured throughout the conference weekend. The 2011 Spindel Conference will be directed by Prof. opening keynote address will be delivered by Peggy Kamuf (U. South Carolina) on September 29, 2011, and the closing keynote will be delivered by Geoffrey Ben- nington (Emory) on October 1, 2011. Other confirmed speakers include Michael Naas (DePaul) and David Wills (SUNY, Albany). Murray Spindel was a great friend to the Philosophy Department. In 1981, Murray established the Spindel Endow- ment Fund to sponsor annual confer- ences on varying topics, enabling inter- action with top scholars in philosophy. Stephan Darwall, Remy Debes, and Dr. Shirley Raines, President of the University. Dr. Miller deserves this honor because of her ongoing effort to ensure that every student succeeds in her course and is on an equal playing field. Kristy Millican 4 Faculty Spotlight It has been a very busy and productive year for our fac- ties. book Sleights of Reason: Norm, Bisexuality, Development will be published by SUNY Press in 2011. Dr. Sarah manuscript Rea- son the Need has been accepted for publication by Routledge Press. The Association for Practical and Professional Ethics will be hosting nual meeting in March 2011. Dr. Bill Lawson presented his - Deceived Hope or Despair: King and Bell on the Ending of phical Association Pacific meeting in April 2009. Dr. Hoke Robinson will contribute his article, in Themes in Ancient and Modern Philosophy , ed- ited by Jill Graper Hernandez (PhD, University of Memphis, 2006). Dr. Timothy Roche has contributed an article in the Cambridge Companion to . Dr. Remy Debes will appear in the Routledge Guide to 18 th Century Philosophy. Dr. Stephan Blatti is coediting, with Paul Snowdon (University College London), a volume en- Faculty Research Dr. Kas Saghafi was born in Iran and undertook his forma- tive studies in England; he earned his PhD from DePaul Uni- versity in 2002. Saghafi was awarded a Chateaubriand Dis- sertation Grant from the French government. After holding an Andrew W. Mellon Post - Doctoral Fellowship at Grinnell College and teaching at Villanova University, he joined the Department of Philosophy at Memphis in 2006. He researches in contemporary continental philosophy, phi- losophy of literature, and aesthetics. He has published arti- cles on contemporary French philosophy in Research in Phe- nomenology, Bulletin de la Société Américaine de Philoso- phie de Langue Française , Philosophy Today , and Mosaic . He coedited a memorial issue of Epoché devoted to Jacques shops and is the Book Review Editor for The Oxford Literary Review . He has presented his research in Australia, Can- ada, England, France, Italy, and in the United States. His recent book, Apparitions (Ford - ham University Press, 2010), addresses why and how Der- Apparitions examines exem- plary instances of the relation to the other the relation of fellow philosopher Jean - Luc Nancy, etc. in order to demonstrate how Derrida forces us to reconceive who or what the other may be. Saghafi shows that the singularity of the other includes not only a formal or logical sense of alterity and the otherness of the human other, but also encompasses the otherness of the nonhuman and the nonliv- ing the no longer living and the not yet alive. of Husserl, Levinas, Barthes, Blanchot, and Nancy, among other thinkers, and ranging across a number of disciplines, including art, literature, philosophy, and re- attending to its mode of appearing or its phenomenality. titled Essays on Animalism: Persons, Animals, and Identity to be published by Oxford University Press. Dr. Philebus is forthcoming in Apeiron . Dr. Tom Nenon edited two volumes this year: Advancing Phe- nomenology : Essays in Honor of Lester Embree (Springer Publishing) and Kant, Kantianism, and Idealism: The Origins of Continental Philosophy , volume 1 of the se- ries, History of Continental Philosophy (Acumen Press). Dr. Deborah Tollefsen and co - author Sondra Bacharach (Victoria University, Wellington, NZ) published Co - Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism . Dr. John Tienson contributed an article to the Oxford Handbook of Philosophy and Psychol- ogy . Dr. Gene James published a Conflict and Reconciliation: The Contribution of Religions . Dr. Pleshette DeArmitt has been awarded an American Post - Doctoral Research Fellowship for 2010 11 from the Ameri- can Association of University Women (AAUW). Dr. Kas Saghafi Glossing is Glorious: The Philosophy, Ethics, and Poetics of Commentary (forthcoming from Notre Dame University Press). 5 Graduate Program The graduate program remains consistently strong under the leadership of Prof. Tim Roche as Graduate Coordinator and Prof. Mary Beth Mader as Admissions Director. Graduate student representatives for the 2010 11 academic year are Paul Hammond (PhD) and John Torrey (MA). The sixth annual Philosophy Graduate Student Conference was held February 12 13, 2010, with Purdue. Speakers included Taylor Hammer (SUNY, Stony Brook), Matthew Daley (Boston College), and Paul Morrow (Vanderbilt). The organizers of the conference were Nicolás Gar- rera Ritvo, Arsalan Memon, and Maia Nahele Huff - Owen. The 2011 conference (February 11 - dress will be delivered by Jennifer Lisa Vest (Central Florida). The conference will explore the social ontology of race from both the analytic and continental perspectives. Interdiscipli- nary by nature, discussion surrounding the social ontology of race has reverberations in multiple companion disciplines, such as ethnic studies, political theory, law, history, feminist theory, queer theory, gender studies, sociology, an- thropology, and more. Organizers for 2011 are Tina Botts , John Torrey , Alice Everly , and Desiree Ramacus - Bushnell . Despite an extremely difficult job market, we continue to place students in post - doctoral and tenure - track posi- tions. , defended her dissertation in August of 2010 and is now Assistant Professor at Koç University in Istanbul, Turkey. Janae Sholtz (PhD, 2009) has accepted a tenure - track Assistant Professor position at Alvernia University in Pennsyl- vania. Bryan Bannon (PhD, 2008) was awarded a Mellon Post - Doctoral Fellowship at Wesleyan University. Erinn Gilson (PhD, 2007) accepted a tenure - track Assis- tant Professor position at the University of North Florida. Anika Mann (PhD, 2004) has received tenure and promotion to Asso- ciate Professor at Morgan State University. The 2009 10 Philosophy Department Service Award was awarded to Heidi Samuelson for her superior commitment to supporting departmental activities. Erasmus Mundus Now in its third year, the University of Memphis is among the consortium of seven European universities, as well as universi- ties in Japan and Brazil, that are part of the highly competitive EuroPhilosophie Erasmus Mundus Program. The program con- sists of studies in classical German philosophy, contemporary French philosophy, and German and French phenomenology. In the first two years, we hosted six international students. For the 2010 11 academic year, Oriane Pettini (France), Bar- bara Brzezicka (Poland), and Oliver Motz (Germany) are our visiting students. In addition to our department being enriched by the students who spend time with us, our students have the opportunity to travel abroad as part of the program. Graduate student Kristin Gissberg spent her first year of the MA program studying at Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic, and the Univer- sité de Toulouse, France. Her classes focused primarily on phe- nomenology and were all conducted in German and French. In April, all of the Erasmus Mundus students gathered in Paris for a week - long stage at the École Normale Supérieure, where they attended lectures on social and political philosophy and phe- nomenology. Kristin finished the spring semester by giving her temps et la temporalité La possibilité de mille petits temps? program in Munich. Nicolás Garrera Ritvo started his two - year fellowship in the Toulouse II - Le Mirail, the Université Catholique du Louvain, and the Ludwig - Maximilians - Universität München. Before leaving for Europe in August, he defended his PhD disserta- Responsibility: A Phenomenological Study of the Genealogy Prof. Tom Nenon and Visiting Professor László Tengelyi. The Erasmus Mundus Program also extends to faculty, both to bring visiting faculty to the University of Memphis and to allow some of our faculty to visit universities abroad. Prof. Tom Nenon served as Visiting Professor at Bergische Uni- versität Wuppertal during their 2010 summer semester. He - Fold Determination of Temporal- Charles University in Prague; delivered a keynote address, Life - - pertal. Prof. Mary Beth Mader will be guest professor at the Université de Toulouse in the spring of 2011. 6 Alumni Spotlight Joshua Glasgow received his PhD in Philosophy in 2001. After finishing his dissertation on Kantian ethics with funding from the Spindel Dissertation Fellowship, Josh returned to his origi- nal stomping grounds on the West Coast as Lecturer at California State University, Bakersfield. In 2004, he took a one - year position as Visiting Assistant Professor at Occidental College. In 2005, he moved much further west, accepting a tenure - track position as Lecturer at Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand. Josh re- ceived tenure and promotion to Senior Lecturer (the rough equivalent of Associate Professor in the United States) in 2007. Josh got married in 2008, and his wife lives in the United States. So, while still affiliated with VUW to this day, he began transitioning back to the United States. In 2008 09, Josh was a Visiting Associate Professor at UC Berkeley; in 2009 10, he took a position as Lecturer at Sonoma State University. Josh teaches and writes on moral and political philosophy, with an emphasis on Kantian ethics and race. His work crosses into experimental philosophy, analytic metaphysics, and philosophy of language, as well as biology and psychol- ogy. He has published in Ethics , Journal of Philosophy , Journal of the History of Philosophy , Philosophy and Phe- nomenological Research , Philosophical Studies , and Jour- nal of Political Philosophy . He published his book A Theory of Race (Routledge) in 2009 and is currently pursuing pro- jects in moral phenomenology, just war theory, and value theory. Josh is a founding coeditor of and contributor to the ethics blog, PEA Soup ( ), which is dedicated to philosophy, ethics, and academia. Josh reflects fondly on his time at Memphis, noting in par- ticular the vibrant social environment and lifelong friend- ships forged in the department, as well as the sizeable influ- ence that the faculty had on his development as a profes- sional philosopher. Graduate Student Spotlight Tim Golden is a fourth - year doctoral student in the Department of Philosophy at the University of Memphis. Thurgood Marshall School of Law, where he was on the editorial board of the Thurgood Marshall Law Review. He comes to academics after a twelve - year career as a criminal defense lawyer in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Tim has been active in the Philosophy Graduate Student Association, served as a graduate student representative on the hiring committee for the Lillian and Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence in Philosophy, and has actively participated in the recruitment efforts of the department by hosting prospective graduate students in his home. Tim also helped plan a graduate student philosophy conference. His dissertation is a study of the concept of subjectivity in the philosophy of Immanuel Kant, in nineteenth - and twentieth - century European philosophy, and in the philosophical, religious, and theological writings of Frederick Douglass. This summer, Tim presented a paper at the Inter - national Kierkegaard Conference at Saint Olaf College in between Frederick Douglass and Søren Kierkegaard a connection that, in his view, has yet to be made in Douglass scholarship. Tim believes that this paper will foster new dialogue between the very different nineteenth - century worlds of an escaped slave turned philosopher, theologian, masterful rhetorician, and statesman and the Danish philosopher and theologian. For the past two summers, Tim has been a research fellow at the Howard V. and Edna H. Hong Kierkegaard Library at Saint Olaf College, studying under the direction of noted Kierkegaard scholar Gordon D. Marino, who is an external reader for his dissertation. Upon graduation, Tim hopes to secure a tenure - track position at a university, researching and teaching in philosophy. After earning tenure, Tim wants to continue his academic work in philosophy, but he also intends to return to the legal profession to practice law and would like to serve as a state Supreme Court Justice. 7 Undergraduate Program The undergraduate program had a successful year led by Prof. Remy Debes as Director of Undergraduate Advising, Prof. Kelly Arenson as Advisor to the Philosophy Circle, and Mollie Owens as president of the Philosophy Circle. The Philosophy Circle , a registered student organization for undergraduates with an interest in philosophy, meets regu- larly throughout the year to present guest speakers, host discus- sions, and organize reading groups. The MidSouth Undergraduate Philosophy Conference runs concurrently with the annual MidSouth Philosophy Conference. The 34 th Undergraduate Conference was held March 5 6, 2010. The keynote address was given by Alastair Norcross of the University of Colorado. In 2011, John Bickle of Mississippi State University will deliver the keynote ad- dress at the meeting held March 4 5. The under- graduate program continues to grow. The number of philosophy majors now approaches 90 students one of the highest numbers of ma- jors the department has ever had. During the 2009 10 school year, Mollie E. Owens was recognized for her outstanding academic accomplish- ments. She received the Carroll R. Bowman Scholarship, which is awarded based on academic potential. Mollie also received the 2009 10 Outstanding Student in Philosophy award, which is granted to a graduating senior in philoso- phy for academic achievement and departmental service. Discover Your Major Day 2010 Second place! Department Staff Behind every great department is an excellent support staff. Ours is no exception to that rule. The main office is staffed by Cathy Wilhelm who is our department secretary and the first point of contact for faculty, graduate students, and under- graduate students. She is always willing to lend a hand. If she question, she will find someone who can! Connie Diffee is our Administrative Associate. Among other things, she assists the Chair in managing the depart- ment budget, processing reimbursements, and overseeing the faculty, graduate student, and adjunct contracts. In ad- dition to all of the various day - to - day tasks that Connie and Cathy performed this year, they were also instrumental in remodeling the Philosophy Reading Room, moving various faculty into more suitable spaces, and providing food for various departmental gatherings. They are outstanding team players and we are very grateful to have them! The University has recently acknowledged our office staff by Administrative Professional Employee (2009) and Cathy - Time Clerical Employee (2010). These awards are given in rec- ognition of exceptional performance and a willingness to go beyond the call of duty. The department has undergone significant changes over the past 15 years but Linda Sadler has remained a constant presence. She began working in the office in 1995 and became editorial assis- tant for The Southern Journal of Philosophy in 1998. Her excellent editing skills guarantee that each volume is something for which the department can be proud. She has been working very hard with Dr. Blatti to transi- tion the SJP to Wiley - Blackwell. With her attention to de- flourish. Linda also helped write and edit the department newsletter this year and is helping to design, write, and edit various promotional materials for the department. Her talents in design, format, and editing are real assets. We are lucky to have Linda with us and we hope she stays for another 20 years! 8 Undergraduate Spotlight Anne Marie Pence , a senior philosophy major, came to the University of Memphis from Atlanta. Having already explored six majors, none of which seemed to fit, Anne Marie just wanted to finish college. So she enrolled as a general studies major in 2008 and took an introductory philosophy course taught by Dr. Remy Debes just to see what it was about. She fell in love with philosophy within the first ten minutes of class; afterward she immediately switched her major. She became active with the Philosophy Circle and took the posi- tion of Secretary of Events, assisting in organizing the 2010 Undergraduate Philosophy Confer- ence. Anne Marie was elected president of the Philosophy Circle for 2010 11 and will be responsi- ble for organizing the Under- graduate Con ference in 2011. She was inducted into the Pinnacle Honor Society in the spring of 2010 and was awarded the Craig R. Garrett Me- morial Scholar ship for Philoso phy for 2010 11. She has steps and will attend law school after gradu a tion. She is interested in interna- and existen tialism. However I have always been incredibly interested in gender roles: how they came about and why they persist. So I am fond of the French feminist philoso- After trying her hand at law for some years, Anne Marie plans to retire as a pastry chef. The 2010 Ida B. Wells Philosophical Conference, organ- ized by the Ida B. Wells Association of the University of Memphis, was held in October. Now in its fourth year, the conference serves as a platform for undergraduate and graduate scholars to present philosophical work re- flecting the African American experience. Dr. Kathryn Gines from Penn- sylvania State University, who is a graduate of the University of Memphis Philosophy De- partment. On Friday evening, October 29, she presented her - Paul Sartre: Decolonizing the Phi- opening session, participants enjoyed a conference dinner in the home of Cathy Wilhelm, secretary in the Department of Philosophy. John Torrey , a second - year MA student at the University of Memphis, started the Saturday morning sessions with - Ethical Considera- Anne Marie Pence , a senior philosophy major and president of the Philosophy Ben- jamin Solis , a senior at Clark Atlanta University, pre- Tyricka Simpson , from the University of North Carolina, Charlotte, presented by Anthony Kelley , a second - year MA stu- dent at Northern Illinois University, it The closing keynote address was deliv- ered by Quayshawn Spencer from the University of San Francisco. His conclud- search interests in both philosophy and biology. The Department of Philosophy was awarded a $7,000 grant from the Ameri- can Philosophical Association to help with conference expenses. With expanded marketing efforts and the growing promi- nence of the conference, the 2010 confer- ence had a record number of submissions and confer- ence attendees. Ida B. Wells Conference Since enrolling in Philosophy my life has done a complete 180. I had always felt like a spectator in my own life, but philosophy has given me some - thing to focus on; it lit a fire under my Ann Marie Pence 9 The Philosophical Horizons initiative was launched in 2008 as both within the department and within the profession of aca- demic philosophy. The primary aim of Philosophical Horizons is to introduce the history and practice of philosophy to Mem- phis children, particularly those who are socioeconomically disadvantaged and to those schools that are least likely to have the resources to implement the Philosophy for Children pro- gram into their curriculum. Philosophical Horizons has grown to partner with six Memphis schools. During 2009 10, graduate students , Matt Lexow , and John Torrey and undergraduate major Alex Baack led discussion groups with eighth graders at Hickory Ridge Middle School; Dr. Deborah Tollefsen and graduate student Michael Burroughs taught introductory philosophy courses to seniors and juniors at Booker T. Washington High School; graduate student Alice Everly led a discussion group with kindergartners at the University of Memphis Barbara K. Lipman Preschool; and Dr. Tollefsen developed a unit on Apology for fifth graders at the University of Memphis Campus School. During 2010 11, graduate students will work with students at Vance Middle School and Westside Middle School. Our department also hosted a Philosophy for Children Conference featuring Gareth Matthews (emeritus Pro- fessor of Philosophy at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst) as keynote speaker and presentations from Thomas Wartenberg (Mount Holyoke College), Rafael Rondon (PhD, University of Oklahoma), Jana Mohr Lone (University of Washington), David Kennedy (Montclair State University), and our own Michael Burroughs. Philosophical Horizons has greatly benefitted from three grants: a Squire Family Foundation grant used to fund our conference on Philosophy for Children; an American Phi- Diversity grant that provided the resources for a culminat- ing experience for all of our young philosophers. Students at Booker T. Washington High School Undergraduate Alumni Spotlight Kyle Carlson completed a BA in economics and philoso- phy in 2006. After graduation, he continued taking addi- tional coursework in mathematics and worked as a re- search assistant in the economics department. Since 2008 he has been a research assistant in the Center for Behav- ioral Economics at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. During 2009, Kyle spent five months in Switzerland con- ducting experimental research on the relationship between intelligence and attitudes toward risk and time. This fall he will begin the PhD program in Behavioral and Social Neu- roscience at the California Institute of Technology. These studies will be funded by a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship. Regarding the benefits of studying philosophy, Kyle com- ences, which have their roots in philosophy. Authors in such fields, as well as others, frequently use a philosopher or philosophical concept as a point of departure or as a way of placing some idea in context. Knowledge of phi- losophers and their traditions allows one to take away rigorously addressing questions through the use of lan- guage, which complements those fields that rigorously Philosophical Horizons An understanding of philosophy greatly benefits any other area of interest. Kyle Carlson 10 tween phenomenology, philosophy of mind, and the cogni- tive sciences, and most recently he has been writing on em- bodied cognition and intersubjectivity. He is currently working on two books: Action and Interaction , which sets out his views on intersubjective understanding and agency and explores their implications for critical theory; and Phe- nomenology , a pragmatic introduction to the phenomenol- ogical tradition (Palgrave - Macmillan, 2012). His published books include How the Body Shapes the Mind (OUP, 2005), Brainstorming (Imprint Academic, 2008), and with Dan Zahavi, The Phenomenological Mind (Routledge, 2008). He is also the author of The Inordi- nance of Time (Northwestern 1998) and Hermeneutics and Education (SUNY 1992). He has edited or coedited a num- ber of books, including, Merleau - Ponty , Hermeneutics and Postmodernism (1992), Hegel, History and Interpretation (1997), Models of the Self (1999), Ipseity and Alterity: In- terdisciplinary Approaches to Intersubjectivity (2004), Does Consciousness Cause Behavior? An Investigation of the Nature of Volition (2006), and Handbook of Phenome- nology and Cognitive Science (2010). He is currently edit- ing the Oxford Handbook of the Self (to appear in 2011). Gallagher was one of the founding editors, and continues to serve as coeditor, of the journal Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences . Several workshops and conferences have focused on Galla- March 2011. In 2009, Gallagher was one of nine scientists and scholars who presented their research to His Holi- ness the Dalai Lama at the Dharamsala, India. Gallagher ( continued from page 1 ) Brainstorming with the Dalai Lama in 2008. eCampus: Bringing Philosophy To You Starting in the fall of 2010, the Department of Philosophy began offering undergraduate courses online, including Biomedical Ethics, Contemporary Moral Problems, and Elementary Logic. Transforming face - to - face courses to an online environment is very challenging but careful planning and use of technology has allowed the faculty to provide compelling and rigorous online course formats. Blogging and discussion forums are used to re - create the dialogue and discussion that is so central to philoso- phical training. Additional courses are currently under development. Within the next five years, students will be able to earn a BA in Philosophy with a concentration in applied ethics completely online . The focus of this degree will be on ethical theories and ethical problem solving in the context of a number of profes- sional domains, including medicine, law, and business. The requirements for the online program mirror those of the tradi- tional, on - campus program. Online upper division courses will include Business Ethics, Environmental Ethics, Philosophy of Law, and a variety of other practically orientated courses. It is especially well suited for students who already work in a p rof es- sional field or are planning to do so. Being able to complete the online degree opens up opportunities for students who are unable to come to one of the locations aim of introducing philosophy to a broader audi- ence. http:// for more information about enrollment, fees, and courses. Our online degree program will be fully accredited and offer the flexibility to set your own pace and take courses that fit v ari- ous work and family schedules, while providing an academically challenging program of study. Please contact Dr. Deborah Tollefsen ( dtollfsn@memphis.edu ) for more information. 11 Private gifts are increasingly important, as support from state and federal sources decline. Every investment makes a differe nce . opportunities more often. To remain competitive with our peer institutions, gifts to the Philosophy Department Enrichment Fund help: attract and retain high - caliber faculty members and students; provide additional scholarship dollars to our undergraduates; increase graduate stipends; and assist with scholarly travel. MAKE A GIFT TODAY! ___Yes, I want to join other alumni and friends in making a gift in support of the Philosophy Enrichment Fund. Enclosed is my gift in the amount of $____________________ made payable to the University of Memphis Foundation (with the specification that it be in support of the Philosophy Enrichment Fund). To give by credit card or automatic draft, please visit waystogive.php or call 901.678.3953. Consider our Matching Gift Program to double, or even triple, the size of the gift through department of your company can supply you with appropriate information and forms, which should be returned along with your gift. Please return this form to: Development Office College of Arts and Sciences 107 Scates Hall The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Name: _____________________________________________________ Degree/Year (if applicable): _______________________________________ Address: ____________________________________________________ E - mail: _____________________________________________________ Phone Number: _______________________________________________ Your Support is Vital 12 Contact Department of Philosophy University of Memphis 327 Clement Hall Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901 - 678 - 2535 901 - 678 - 5130 Fax: 901 - 678 - 4365 E - mail: philosophy@memphis.edu Web: philosophy Faculty List Kelly Arenson , Assistant Professor, ancient philosophy, history of hedonism, ethics, philosophy of the body Stephan Blatti , Assistant Professor & Editor of The Southern Journal of Philosophy , metaphysics, philosophy of mind Pleshette DeArmitt , Assistant Profes- sor, feminist theory, psychoanalysis, con- temporary continental philosophy Remy Debes , Assistant Professor & Undergraduate Advisor, ethics, moral psychology, philosophy of emotion, Scot- tish Enlightenment, Hume, Adam Smith Gene James , Professor, value theory, applied ethics, American philosophy, philosophy of religion Bill Lawson , Distinguished Professor, African American philosophy, social and political philosophy Mary Beth Mader , Associate Professor & Graduate Admissions Director, recent and contemporary continental philoso- phy, feminist philosophy, 20th - century French philosophy, ontology, continental philosophy and the life sciences Sarah Clark Miller , Associate Professor & Graduate Placement Director, ethical theory, feminist philosophy, social and political philosophy, history of moral philosophy, applied ethics Thomas Nenon , Professor & Vice Provost, Husserl, Heidegger, Kant and German ideal- ism, hermeneutics, philosophy of the social sciences Hoke Robinson , Professor, Kant, rational- ism, history of modern philosophy Timothy Roche , Associate Professor & Graduate Studies Coordinator, Greek philoso- phy, theoretical ethics, social and political phi- losophy Kas Saghafi , Assistant Professor, contempo- rary continental philosophy, aesthetics, phe- nomenology John Tienson , Professor , philosophy of mind, metaphysics, philosophy of language, British empiricists Deborah Tollefsen , Associate Professor & Department Chair, philosophy of mind, epis- temology, social ontology