#http://www.memphis.edu/law/programs/join-law-review.php
Joining Law Review - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Home School of Law Programs Joining Law Review JOINING LAW REVIEW Membership on the University of Memphis Law Review is limited to second- and third-year law students who are selected based on their performance in a competition held during the summer of their 1L year. After successfully completing the required courses of a full-time first year law student, and achieving a GPA of 2.50 or higher, the law student is eligible to participate in the summer competition. Part-time law students and transfer students are also eligible to participate once they have completed the required courses of a full-time first year law student and have met the GPA requirements. Second-year transfers are eligible to compete once they complete the second year coursework and have met the GPA requirements. Selection Up to thirty rising 2Ls will be chosen as staff members of the Law Review. The three highest-ranked students in each section of the first-year class at the end of the first year will receive automatic invitations to be Law Review staff members pending a good faith completion of the summer competition. Selection of the other staff members is based on the results of the summer competition, which is designed to demonstrate the students' aptitude for legal scholarly writing, researching, and cite checking. The competitors are required to write a Case Comment on a recent state or federal case, as well as complete a citation and editing exam for a piece of unpublished work. The anonymous competition is scored by the Editorial Board and the top scoring 2Ls are then selected as Staff Members. Membership If selected for membership on the Law Review, the duties for 2Ls and 3Ls include line editing and cite checking the articles chosen for publication. Additionally, 2L members must write their own work of legal scholarship, the student Note. The Note is roughly thirty to fifty pages in length, and explores a specific issue within an area of law. Rising 3L members may apply for positions on the Law Review Editorial Board. The Editorial Board is responsible for day-to-day operations of each facet of the journal: article selection and editing, cite checking supervision and reconciliation, and student Note consultation. Student Publications Each year, the Law Review selects a number of student works to publish. Selected student Notes and the winning Case Comment from the summer competition are published throughout the year. In conjunction with the faculty, the Editor-in-Chief and the Senior Notes Editor select the best students Notes of those published. The top three ranking Notes receive a cash award and plaque for their achievement. Credit Upon successful completion of their Note and other assignments, 2L Staff Members will receive two credits in the spring semester of their 2L year, as well as satisfaction of the legal writing requirement. Senior Staff Members will receive an additional credit hour during the spring of their 3L year. Editorial Board members receive two additional credit hours during the spring of their 3L year, for a total of four credits for fulfilling all of their Law Review responsibilities. Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .