#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11499
Custodian I Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Custodian I Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE830 Advertised Title Custodian I Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 018673 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department Residence Life Minimum Position Qualifications Ability to follow verbal and written instructions and one year of appropriate experience. Special Conditions Work Schedule Monday-Friday 7:00-3:30pm Nights and Weekends as needed Posting Date 11/16/2015 Closing Date 11/23/2015 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range 10.10 per hour Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to talk or hear. The employee frequently is required to stand; walk; use hands to handle, or feel; and reach with hands and arms. The employee is occasionally required to sit; climb or balance; and stoop, kneel, or crouch. The employee must frequently lift and/or move up to 10 pounds and occasionally lift and/or move up to 25 pounds. Additional Working Conditions Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Answers questions and provides information to staff, faculty, students, and visitors. Duties & Responsibilities Assists in securing building; closes all windows; locks windows in basements and on first floors Duties & Responsibilities Bonnet clean and/or shampoo carpet Duties & Responsibilities Cleans all interior glass and mirrors. Duties & Responsibilities Cleans assigned spaces; vacuums, sweeps and mops floors; dusts furnishings and equipment. Duties & Responsibilities Collects and removes trash from offices and classrooms; polices public areas. Duties & Responsibilities Maintains custodial areas, equipment, and supplies in a neat, clean, and orderly manner. Duties & Responsibilities Removes ice and snow from building entrances. Duties & Responsibilities Sanitizes restrooms; replenishes towels, soap, and toilet paper. Duties & Responsibilities Scrubs, strips and refinishes floors. Duties & Responsibilities Other duties as assigned. Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Resume Cover Letter Optional Documents