#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/news-events/sjp/sjp-newsletter2010.pdf
lytic philosophers, continental philosophers, and historians of philosophy (see page 4) . A representative sample of the work of this distinguished group is on display in our special March i ssue. Sadler, our new colleagues at Wiley - Blackwell, and the faculty and staff of the University of M emphis De partment of Philosop hy for making all this possible. Special thanks are due to Nancy Simco, whose brief history of the SJP kicks off the March issue. For more than three dec ades, Nancy served not only as E ditor of this journal in particular, but also as a strong advocate for philosophy journals in general. We hope you will join us in celebrating a- tion to the lecture series named in her honor. Further details can be found on page 4. Finally, thank you for your continuing support of the SJP , Stephan Blatti, Editor blatti@memphis.edu SJP n ews Issue 01 April 2010 Nancy Simco Speaker Series Fund Professor Nancy Simco served as Editor of T he Southern Journal of Philosophy for thirty - four years and as Chair of the Department of Phil osophy for nineteen years. Upon her retirement, the faculty established a speaker series fund to honor her commitment to undergraduate and graduate education. This fund provides the resources to bring some of the most distinguished thinkers from this country and abroad to the University of Memphis. Each Simco Lecture will be published in The Southern Journal of Philosophy . Spindel Fund A successful Memphis businessman, Murray Spindel, was a dedicated philosopher who often took courses at the University of Memphis. In 1981, Murray endowed the Spindel Fund which supports both an annual philosophy conference and a dissertation fellowship. Since his death in 1999, The Spindel Conference brings to campus each fall the highest caliber of philosophers from around the world, and the proceedings are published annually as the Spindel Supplement to The Southern Journal of Philosophy . The Spindel Conference is both a schola rly and social event and has come to define what is best about philosophy in Memphis and what Murray Spindel loved most: the frien d- ly, but lively and engaging pursuit of truth. To make a donation to either of these funds, please visit the following website: Be sure to specify that your donation should be directed to either the Nancy Simco Speaker Series Fund or the Spindel Fund . Thank you for your support! Support The Southern Journal of Philosophy Please consider support ing the SJP and the philosophical community at the University of Memphis by making a donation to one of the following funds: University of Memphis Department of Philosophy 327 Clement Hall Memphis, TN 38152 901.678.2535 phone 901.687.4265 fax Southern Journal of P hilosophy NEWSLETTER OF THE SOUTHERN JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHY SJP n ews Editorial Board Rachel Barney University of Toronto Robert Bernasconi Pennsylvania State University William Blattner Georgetown University Tina Chanter DePaul University Tamar Szabó Gendler Yale University A. C. Genova University of Kansas Hannah Ginsborg University of California, Berk eley Sandy Goldberg Northwestern University David Henderson University of Nebraska Terry Horgan University of Arizona Len Lawlor Pennsylvania State University Catherine Malabou Université Paris X - Nanterre Linda Martín - Alcoff Hunter College, CUNY Volume 48 Issue 1 March 2010 STEPHAN BLATTI Introduction NANCY SIMCO A History of T he Southern Journal of Philosophy PAUL SNOWDON On the What - It - Is - Like - ness of Experience TAD SCHMALTZ Malebranche and Leibniz on the Best of All Possible Worlds ROBERT BERNASCONI Thinking During the Late 1930s TERRY HORGAN Transvaluationism about Vagueness: A Progress Report RACHEL BARNEY His Opponents on Rhetoric and the Good LINDA MARTÍN ALCOFF SJP ANNOUNCEMENTS Transition to Wiley - Blackwell Complete A fter nearly a half - century of self - publication and eighteen months of preparation, T he Southern Journal of Philosophy is going pro! Beginning with the first issue of 2010 , the SJP will appear under the imprint of our new publisher, Wiley - Blackwell. Through increased exposure and assorted logistical and cosmetic updates, the partnership with Wiley - Blackwell promises to broaden the appeal and deepen the impact of the work published in the SJP . Already, the journal has new website, authors and reviewers may now submit their manuscripts and reports via back catalogue is readily available. (See pages 2 and 3 for details.) But while we are pleased to begin this new c hapter in our history, the SJP remains steadfast in its belief that the arc of philosophical progress bends toward pluralism. This co m- mitment to first - class work undertaken from a diversity of perspectives and methodologies is evident in the compos i- tion of our newly established E ditorial B oard, whose me m- bership reflects a roughly equal distribution of leading ana - ISSUE APRIL 2010 01 Christopher Pincock Purdue University Tad Schmaltz Duke University Alan Schrift Grinnell College Tommie Shelby Harvard University David Shoemaker Tulane University Paul Snowdon University College London Amie Thomasson University of Miami John Tienson University of Memphis Mark Timmons University of Arizona Rebecca Walker University of North Carolina Alison Wylie University of Washington Gideon Yaffe University of Southern California Jack Zupko Emory University PAGE four A Tennessee Board of Regents Institution An Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action University in this issue Transition to Wiley - Blackwell 1 Spindel Conference / Essay Prize 2 SJP Gets a Facelift 2 Spindel Supplement Preview 3 A. C. Genova (1929 - 2010) 3 SJP Online / SJP Subscriptions 3 Editorial Board 4 Support the SJP 4 29 th Annual Spindel Conference Empathy and Ethics take place October 7 9, 2010 at the University of Memphis. The keynote speakers will be Stephen Darwall, John Deigh, and Peter Goldie. Other participants include Amy Coplan, Finlay, D aniel Jacobson, Jesse Prinz, Robert Roberts, Connie Rosati, Tamar Shapiro, Michael Slote, and Karsten Steuber. The conference director is Remy Debes. Call for Submissions Emerging Scholar Prize Essay The Emerging Scholar Prize Essay will be delivered at a special breakfast session preceding the regular Friday sessions. The essay will be cons i- dered for publication alongside reg u- lar conference proceedings in the annual Spindel Supplement to The Southern Journal of Philosophy . The winning author will receive a prize in the amount of $250. The top runner - up will be asked to chair the breakfast session, and all finalists will be invited to prepare a poster, to be displayed throughout the conference weekend. The Emerging Scholar Prize Essay will be competitively selected. Authors must be either currently enrolled in a graduate program or within six years of completing the Ph.D. Submitted essays should contain original r e- m- Essays must not exc eed 3500 words and must be prepared for blind review with a separate cover sheet that includes word count, author affiliation, and contact information. Submissions should be sent via electronic attac h- ment (in Word or PDF) to Remy Debes (rdebes@memphis.edu) . The d eadline for submissions is June 1, 2010. Professor A. C. Genova (PhD, University of Chicago) died une x- pectedly of natural cau ses on March 20 , 2010. Tony was a faculty member of the University of Kansas Department of Philosophy and a long - standing friend of the SJP . He recently joined the newly established Editorial Board. A memorial notice is being prepared by his colleagues at the Unive r- s i ty of Kansas. This notice will appear in a n upcoming issue of the SJP . PAGE two PAGE three Professor A. C. Genova (1929 2010) Under the direction of Mary Beth Mader, the 28 th annual Spindel Conference was held at the University of Memphis on September 24 - 26, 2009. The topic was The Sexes of Evolution: Continental Philos o- phy, Feminist Philosophy, and Evolutionary Theory . As a l- ways, the c ontributions to the Spindel Conference appear in the Spindel Supplement to the SJP the following year. The central question animating last conference wa s What can c ontinental Philosophy contribute to our understanding of the feminist issues raised by evolu tionary theory, b roadly understood? As this su g- gests , Mader sought to facilitate the union of three broad streams of co n- temporary thought: continental ph i- losophy, feminist philosophy and evolu tionary theory. Confere nce is to showcase the co n- tributions of philosophers working at the important and timely junction of n- common for two of these r e- search streams rare is the co n- flu ence of all What can continental p hilo s- ophy contribute to our unde r- standing of the feminist issues raised by evolutionary theory, broadly understood? Mary Beth Mader SJP Gets a Facelift Our colleagues at Wiley - Bl ackwell have given the SJP quite a makeover. Even a superficial glance confirms attention: front cover, back cover, branding, fonts, nipped, tucked, burnished, and bedecked. Despite these updates, however, the spirit of the in a number of familiar elements. Most notable is the Owl of Minerva logo which has long graced the SJP continues to do so. Happy reading! New Look Features Redesigned Cover, Preserves Trademark Elements Spindel Supplement Preview 2009 Conference Topic: The Sexes of Evolution These philosophers included both established researchers as well as younger scholars , Contributors i n- clude Claire Colebrook (Penn State University), Penelope Deutscher (Northwestern University), Ladelle McWho r - ter (University of Richmond), Kelly Oliver (Vanderbilt Universi ty), and Luciana Parisi (Gold - smiths, Unive r- sity of London). W atch for the 2010 Spindel Suppl e- ment this fall! And be sure to check out past Spindel Supplements via the 2010 Spindel Supplement, ed. Mary Beth Mader Contents Penelope Deutscher (Northwestern University) - of - the - Century German John Nale (Penn State University), Commentator Ladelle McWhorter (University of Richmond) Analysis of Neoliberalism Bill Wilkerson (University of Alabama, Huntsville), Commentator Kelly Oliver (Vanderbilt University) Camisha Russell (Penn State University), Commentator Luciana Parisi (Goldsmiths, University of London) Event and Evolution Jami Weinstein (Utrecht University), Commentator Claire Colebrook (Penn State University) Extinction, Sex and Creative Evolution Nicole Anderson (Macquarie University), Commentator SJP Online New Homepage Be sure to visit our new homepage: This is your one - stop - shop for info r- mation concerning the journal's Aims & Scope, Submission Guidelines , Upcoming Issues, Calls for Papers, Subscription s, Announcements, and more. ScholarOne Manuscripts Authors and reviewers may now submit their manuscripts and reports via ScholarOne Manuscript's online system: . manuscriptcentral .com/sjp Back Catalog ue The SJP catalog (1963 2010) has been digitized and is now available on our Wile y InterScience website: This catalog includes both regular issues as well as the Spindel Supplements. SJP Subscriptions Complimentary Subscriptions Complimentary online access to the SJP is available to members of the Editorial Board as well as to all University of Memphis faculty, staff, and students. Does Your Library Subscribe to SJP ? V isit the SJP homepage and click today !