#http://www.memphis.edu/mail/services.php
Window Services - Mail Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Mail Services Staff Directory Mailbox Rentals Services Mailing Info Home Mail Services Window Services Window Services We offer a variety of window services at our station located in 259 University Center. Services include stamp purchases, mailings such as First Class and Priority, delivery and signature confirmations, and much, much more. Feel free to call or stop by and ask about wide variety of services designed to meet your postal needs. Here are a few examples of services we offer: Stamps Stamps are on sale at the post office contract station windows. In addition, stamp collector items are available for collectors who wish to examine the items for collecting purposes. Money Orders Money orders of amounts up to $900 each may be purchased. A fee of $1.25 is charged for money orders of $500.00 or less. The fee is $1.65 for orders of $500.01 - $900.00. C.O.D. C.O.D. (Collect on Delivery) mail may be received through Mail Services but cannot be sent. Certified Mail Certified mail service provides a receipt to the sender and a record of delivery at the office of address. It is handled in the same manner as ordinary mail, with no insurance coverage provided. All mailable matter of no intrinsic value, on which postage at the first-class rate has been paid, will be accepted as certified mail. A return receipt may be obtained upon payment of an additional fee. Registered Mail Registered mail provides added protection for valuable and important mail, and evidence of mailing and delivery. All mailable matter with postage paid at the first-class or priority rate may be registered. The sender is required by law to declare the full value of the registered mail. Registered mail must bear the complete name and address of both sender and addressee. All seams on packages or large envelopes must be sealed with paper tape. Scotch tape, masking tape, mending tape, and filament tape are not acceptable. Mail Services employees are not permitted to assist in the preparation or sealing of mail to be registered. Registered mail must be presented to the post office contract station in the University Center by sender or a representative. Mail Services personnel cannot present it to the post office as the sender's representative. Insured Mail Insurance provides a means whereby the sender may obtain payment for loss of, riffling of, or damage to domestic mail. This service is available for all third, fourth, special fourth, and library rate classes of mail. Third or fourth class mail sent priority mail, due to the need for faster service, may also be insured. Insured Mail that is purchased at our USPS campus post office provides up to $5,000 indemnity coverage for a lost, rifled, or damaged article, subject to the standards for the service and payment of the applicable fee. A value must be declared at time of mailing. Parcel Post Parcel Post is handled as fourth-class mail. It is rated according to zone. Insurance, special delivery, and special handing service may be obtained for fourth-class parcel post. Fourth-class parcels mailed for delivery by the U.S. Postal Service may not weigh more than 70 pounds and may not be less than 108 inches or exceed 130 inches in length and girth combined. Measure as follows: (1) measure the longest side; (2) measure distance around the parcel at its thickest part [girth]; (3) add both measurements. This total should not exceed 130 inches. Expedited Mail Services Expedited (overnight) mail services are available via the United States Postal Services and Federal Express. A description of each follows: Express Mail (U.S. Postal Service) offers overnight and second day service with messenger service pickup or direct mailing at all postal facilities. The overnight service is based on the time Express Mail is entered into the system and the ZIP code of destination. Custom designed service is available only on a scheduled basis between designated postal facilities or other designated locations under a special service agreement. Letters and parcels weighing 70 pounds or less are accepted for Express Mail. Federal Express picks up overnight mail from Mail Services at 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. Overnight packages should be brought to Mail Services no later than 2:45 p.m. for processing prior to this pickup. A second pickup takes place at 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday from a drop box located inside Jones Hall. The University's Federal Express account number should appear on all airbills so that the proper account is charged. The recipient's complete address should be included on each airbill; including name, phone number, and departmental index number. Please check the desired package service and whether or not the package contains dangerous goods. Departmental charges for Federal Express service will be billed with other Mail Services charges on the 20th of each month. Any discrepancies in billing should be reported to Mail Services as soon as received. Mail Services will coordinate any adjustments with Federal Express. NOTE: Federal Express does not deliver to Post Office boxes. If time constraints dictate, Federal Express couriers may be called directly to pick up overnight materials. METHODS OF PAYMENT: Our methods of payment are cash and personal checks. Personal checks are accepted (with appropriate identification as specified by standard university check cashing procedures) for all items except money orders. FedEx Federal Express UPS United Parcel Service Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/19/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .