#http://www.memphis.edu/advising/Documents/access.pdf
Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life After you have logged in, click on the eCampus Resources tab, and Select Content/Layout - some of the boxes may be different) Log in here as usual Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life Make sure that the eCampus Resources tab is highlighted (blue, not gray). If it is not, click it. Click on Content/Layout Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life Make sure the eCampus Resources tab is highlighted (blue, not gray). Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life Once you decide where you want to put the new channel, you will see the following option: You could select this one . You could select this o ne. Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life Select Student and click go Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life Next, return to eCampus Resources. Select True Blue Life Then click Add Channel Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life See Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life New Channel, True Blue Life Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life Once you are notified that students assigned to you (in SGAADVR) have an early alert (early intervention), please access True Blue Life in the myMemphis portal. Click True Blue Life (Admin) and navigate to the Find your student by submitting a Banner ID or First/Last name. You cannot search for a studen t with SSN in Retain. Click Search/New to search for a student. Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life Scroll down to the bottom of the form to find the Search Now button. Click to execute your search. To find a student, enter Banner ID (U #) or First name/Last name. You cannot search for a student with SSN in Retain. Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life Search results may be found at the bottom of the page. Click Search Now to execute your search (or simply hit the enter key on your keyboard). Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life d and by clicking on the Alerts tab (not shown here, but will be adjacent to the other tabs seen here). Search Results; Click on the ID to see more. Early Alert (Early Intervention) in True Blue Life Alert information can be seen at the bottom of the and by clicking on the Alerts tab (not shown he re, but will be adjacent to the other tabs seen here).