#http://www.memphis.edu/advising/Documents/comments.pdf
Step 3 Using the Communications Log to Email and Make Comments Entering Comments for Early Intervention Feedback Faculty members/classroom instructors may submit an early alert (early intervention) on a student who is assigned to your for advising (in SGAADVR). M ake notes about what action you take on the Communications Log tab seen below. Communications Log may be used to report your contact with students on Early Alert (Early Intervention). Click New Contact Communication. Step 3 Using the Communications Log to Email and Make Comments If you are using this form to email the student concerning the Early Intervention, click email. This will a ctually allow you send an email to the student through True Blue Life, and record the communication in the Communication Log at the same time. When completed, this email will go to the student. communication ( not your name or the Please always call this... term of the Early Intervention Step 3 Using the Communications Log to Email and Make Comments When you click email as the type of communication, an email form will appear below. This is the form you will use to email the student. If you want to create the email and paste it i n, use Microsoft Notepad (which is probably on the computer at Start, All Programs, Accessories). Indicate the means of communication using the radio butt ons and pull down menu email (notice the email form ) Step 3 Using the Communications Log to Email and Make Comments Step 3 Using the Communications Log to Email and Make Comments Once you have completed your email message, click the next button. Step 3 Using the Communications Log to Email and Make Comments Other types of communication having to do with Early Intervention should be recorded in the communication log. Use the pull down menu to identify the type of contact. but you will need to enter a from name, a from email, and subject. Click send now to send the email. Step 3 Using the Communications Log to Email and Make Comments The descri ption field is not required. You may type anything you like in this field. Specify Communication Details Step 3 Using the Communications Log to Email and Make Comments Click OK to save the Communication in the Communication Log. Use this space to make note of the details of your interaction with/contact with the student. Use the specific date and time field to note interactions for which a specific time may be important. This date and time will be applied to the note when it is sa ved. Step 3 Using the Communications Log to Email and Make Comments Your communication (email or other) is saved in the log and may be accessed later by searching for a retrieving the student.