#http://www.memphis.edu/mlche/academics/about.php
About Us - MLCHE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics About Programs Students Faculty &amp; Staff Research News About Us Research Publications Resources Other U of M Research Centers Staff &amp; Associates Policies &amp; Annual Reports Contact Us Home MLCHE Academics About Us Our mission is to address complex healthcare issues, focusing on emerging issues that affect Memphis, Shelby County, and the State of Tennessee. The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics (MLCHE) was established in March 2003 with a grant from Methodist Healthcare and Le Bonheur Systems, Inc. MLCHE focuses on issues of efficiency, effectiveness, and equity in healthcare through a variety of research, internship, instruction, and public service programs. We are located in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics at the University of Memphis. Working with entities internal and external to The University of Memphis, we provide a physical and administrative structure to facilitate the study of health care and its economic impact. Why a Center for Healthcare Economics? The health system touches everyone, yet health care seems always to be in crisis. In many ways, Tennessee faces the same challenges as the rest of the nation: an aging population, increasing prevalence of chronic diseases, and the resulting increases in healthcare costs. The cost problem is compounded by a delivery system that allocates healthcare dollars in a haphazard way, with too little money spent on health promotion and prevention and too much on expensive procedures for treating acute illnesses that may be preventable. As costs continue to escalate, employers are forced to cut back on health benefits for their current and retired employees or sacrifice other forms of compensation. Publicly funded programs face similar challenges. TennCare, Tennessee's Medicaid program, has been in a constant state of flux since its inception as the State has struggled to cover its neediest citizens while maintaining a balanced budget. These and other pressing problems require extensive research to identify their root causes so that effective policy solutions can be developed. Expertise The staff and associated researchers at MLCHE are experienced business and healthcare consultants. They have established research records in: Access to health care Health insurance coverage Racial disparities in health care Gerontology Health care technology Quality improvement in health care Employee health benefits Hospital cost management Methodological issues in data collection and management Our staff and associated researchers have been active in funded research and have served as principal or co-principal investigators on many research projects supported by a variety of federal, state, and local funding agencies. They have published in numerous refereed journals, such as Journal of Health Economics, Health Economics, JAMA, The Archives of Internal Medicine, Gerontology, Health Services Research, Journal of Health Politics, Policy, and Law, and Journal of Healthcare Management. About Us Research Publications Resources Other U of M Research Centers Staff &amp; Associates Policies &amp; Annual Reports Contact Us About Us What does the MLCHE do? Your first step starts here! Publications Stay connected with our research-active faculty. Click here to see some of our most recent publications. Staff and Associates Learn more about the people that compose the MLCHE! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .