#http://bf.memphis.edu/bfguide/10245.htm
BF10245 - Filing a Fee Appeal (Request for Review of Fee, Charge, or Refund) with the Bursar's Office - The University of Memphis The University of Memphis Filing a Fee Appeal (Request for Review of Fee, Charge, or Refund) with the Bursar's Office BFGuide Issued:&nbsp Apr 22, 2004 Responsible Official:&nbsp Assistant Vice President, Finance Responsible Office:&nbsp Bursar's Office Purpose &nbsp Any individual may appeal the assessment, application, calculation, or interpretation of any University fee, charge, deposit, refund, or any University action connected with fees, charges, refunds, and collection procedures. A written appeal for any fee, charge, refund, or calculation relating to registration fees may be filed on forms available in the Bursar's Office or online and may be approved if within University guidelines. If the appeal is denied, the student has ten (10) days in which to file a second appeal to the Assistant Vice President for Finance. The decision of the Assistant Vice President for Finance may be appealed within ten (10) days to the University's Fee/Refund Appeals Committee. The recommendation of the University's Fee/Refund Appeals Committee will be forwarded to the Vice President for Business and Finance for a final decision which will conclude the appeals process. All appeals for Residence Life Charges, Parking Citations, or any fee not assessed by the Bursar's Office must be filed with the appropriate office. Contents Definitions Retroactive Withdrawal Late Withdrawal Procedures Preliminary Information Filing an Appeal Appeal for refund based on Advising Error Appeal for refund based on Death in Family Appeal for refund based on Employer Conflict Appeal for refund based on Medical Situation Appeal for refund based on Military Call to Active Duty Related Forms Appeal/Request for Review of Fee, Charge, or Refund Form Links The University of Memphis Policies and Procedures Standard Exceptions Granted by the Bursar's Office Contacts Bursar's Office Definitions Retroactive Withdrawal A request by the student to be withdrawn from a semester which has already concluded. For example, a request made in February to be withdrawn from the previous summer or fall semester would be considered "retroactive." Late Withdrawal A request by the student to be allowed to withdraw from a current semester after the published "last day to withdraw from the semester and receive a "W" for grade." Procedures Preliminary Information Students requesting a refund of registration fees for courses must be withdrawn from the course(s) before an appeal for refund may be considered. Students whose appeals are submitted while enrolled in courses will be notified to withdraw from the course prior to consideration. Students who have missed the last day to withdraw or who are requesting a refund for a term that has already concluded must request a late/retroactive withdrawal from the Dean of their College. The student will be routed to the appropriate officials in the order necessary to approve a late/retroactve withdrawal. Filing an Appeal Student is required to complete the APPEAL/REQUEST FOR REVIEW OF FEE, CHARGE, OR REFUND form and submit to the Bursar's Office. The form is available online or in the Bursar's Office. Each request should be submitted along with appropriate documentation to support the request. Examples of appropriate documentation are included in the following information. All decisions by the Bursar's Office will be sent to the email address provided on the appeal form, or to the assigned University email account when no address is given. Appeal for refund based on Advising Error Students requesting a refund of registration fees due to an advising error must submit an appeal form and attach a memo on University letterhead from the advisor with a detailed account of the situation that led to the student's incorrectly being enrolled in a course. Students requesting a refund of late fees due to an advising error must submit a memo on University letterhead from the advisor with a detailed account of the circumstances that prevented the student from fulfilling registration/fee payment obligations by the appropriate deadline. Appeal for refund based on Death in Family Students requesting a refund of tuition based on a death in the student's immediate family must provide supporting documentation such as an obituary that includes the student's name as a survivor, or a copy of the death certificate that includes the student's name as a relative. The exception rule for refunds based on death provides a normal refund up to 75% of the fees. If a student would, under our normal time and percentage schedule receive less than 75%, we may approve an exception to bring the total to 75%. These refunds are handled the same as all other refunds, including determining if any part of the refund must be returned to federal sources. Appeals based on death in the family may be granted for death of family members as outlined in the University bereavement policy upon proper documentation as outlined above. Appeal for refund based on Employer Conflict Students requesting a refund of tuition based on an employer conflict must include a letter from the employer on company letterhead with the effective date of change in regular schedule and the reason for the change in employment schedule/location. Documentation from the employer should demonstrate that the cause of the employer conflict was beyond the student's control and could not have been anticipated at the time of registration and/or 100% refund deadline. The exception rule for employer conflict refunds provides a normal refund up to 75% of the fees. If a student would, under our normal time and percentage schedule receive less than 75%, we may approve an exception to bring the total to 75%. These refunds are handled the same as all other refunds, including determining if any part of the refund must be returned to federal sources. Appeal for refund based on Medical Situation Students requesting a refund of tuition based on a medical situation must include a letter from the attending physician as proof of illness with dates of illness along with the request. The exception rule for medical refunds provides a normal refund up to 75% of the fees. If a student would, under our normal time and percentage schedule receive less than 75%, we may approve an exception to bring the total to 75%. These refunds are handled the same as all other refunds, including determining if any part of the refund must be returned to federal sources. Medical appeals may be granted for death/illness of family members as outlined in the University bereavement policy upon proper documentation as outlined above. Appeal for refund based on Military Call to Active Duty Per TBR Guideline B-060 Fees, Charges, and Refunds Pursuant to TCA 49-7-2301 and 49-7-2302, students called to active military or National Guard service during the semester are entitled to a 100% refund or credit of mandatory fees. Housing and meal ticket charges may be prorated based upon usage. Students requesting a refund of registration fees due to a call to active military duty must supply the Bursar's Office a copy of the official military orders. Once received, the Bursar's Office will process a 100% credit for all courses from which the student must withdraw due to military service. Students who receive Title IV funding are subject to any Title IV credits prior to the Bursar's Office processing the remaining credits to total 100% of mandatory fees. Related Forms Appeal/Request for Review of Fee, Charge, or Refund Form Links The University of Memphis Policies and Procedures Contacts Bursar's Office Revision Dates &nbsp (Working Guideline Number: 10245)