#http://folkworm.ceri.memphis.edu/REQ3/html/index2.html
Earthquake Map| CERI Seismic Network Recent Earthquakes Map Map with Stations Map with Stations and EQs Thumbnail Map Recent Earthquakes with fewer events Recent Earthquakes from USGS Earthquake Map Recent Earthquakes from CERI at the University of Memphis. List of all events Legend Recent Eqs Map Legend The sizes of symbols scale with earthquake magnitude, and their color with either the age of the earthquake or its depth, as shown in the legend below, and selected in the panel to the right of the map. Clicking on an earthquake symbol shows its basic details and a link to a page with more details about the individual earthquake. Probable surface explosions (usually due to quarrying or road building), while not routinely located and displayed on this map, are shown as stars. Control Panel Recent Eqs Map Panel Using the tools in this panel you can control the earthquakes shown on the map. The minimum magnitude to plot is selected by the slider. The &quot;Time&quot; and &quot;Depth&quot; determines whether earthquake age or depth are used to color the symbol. Show all magnitudes > Time Depth Display boundaries Analyze Instructions: Close Please follow the steps below: 1) To begin, click the "Draw" button 2) Click a point on the map, this will be the left side of the cross-section. 3)Click a second point on the map, this will be the right side of the cross-section. 4) Drag square on line to include events to plot. 5) Select plot type and depth constraint if any. 6) Click "Plot" Draw Plot Type: X-Section Depth-Time Cumulative # Mag-Time Plot Magnitude A Km B Magnitude Km Magnitude Count Magnitude Reset All Events on map View kilometers View miles View UTC View Central Mag Time (Central) (UTC) Depth (Km) (Miles) To reduce load times, the list is not rendered for large queries. Map boundaries The red polygon is the reporting region for this map; the black polygons are the authoritative regions of CERI (the NM network for the New Madrid region and the SE network for the southeast region). Events submitted by CERI are rendered as cirlces; events submitted by another network (e.g. the USGS NEIC) are rendered as squares. Explosions, while not routinely posted, are always rendered as stars. &nbsp. Cross Section Create a custom cross-section or depth-time plot. Click on &quot;Custom Plot&quot; to start. Back to CERI Seismic Information