#http://blogs.memphis.edu/president/2014/06/
The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog | Archives | 2014 | June Main menu Skip to content Home About the President The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog Search for: Monthly Archives: June 2014 Jun 19 2014 Teacher Preparation National Rankings Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow For the second year, the Teacher Prep Review published by U.S. News &amp; World Report in conjunction with the National Council on Teacher Quality (NCTQ) has ranked the elementary and secondary teacher preparation programs at the University of Memphis among the best in the nation . The U of M was ranked 27th for its undergraduate elementary program and 28th for the graduate secondary program. The Review evaluated more than 800 elementary teacher programs and more than 800 secondary teacher education programs nationally. These rankings place the University of Memphis teacher preparation program among the top 3.5% in the country.  In terms of national rankings, the teacher preparation program has demonstrated the most significant performance of any academic program at the university.  These rankings demonstrate our strong institutional commitment to high-quality teacher training. Within Tennessee, the University of Memphis elementary program was rated second and the secondary program fifth. In the Southern region, the U of M was ranked 11th among elementary programs and seventh among secondary programs. Teacher education is essential to the success of Memphis and our nation. We can take great pride in being recognized as a national leader and innovator in an area that touches so many lives. I am grateful for the expertise, talent and hard work of our faculty.  Please join me in congratulating them on this remarkable accomplishment. M. David Rudd, President Addendum: The NCTQ takes an in-depth look at admissions standards, course requirements, course syllabi, textbooks, capstone projects, student teaching manuals and graduate surveys, among other sources, as blueprints for training teachers. It applies specific and measurable standards that identify the teacher preparation programs most likely to get the best outcomes for their students. To develop these standards, the NCTQ consulted with international and domestic experts on teacher education, faculty and deans from schools of education, statistical experts and PK-12 leaders. The report is online at . Leave a comment | Jun 06 2014 The University of Memphis ranked among the top twenty Collegiate Readership Programs by USA TODAY Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow University of Memphis students should be proud of their 14 TH place ranking as one of the Top 20 Programs in USA Today’s Collegiate Readership Program. According to statistics provided by USA Today, U of M students have been reading an average of almost 1,200 newspapers per day, totaling 141,669 for the latest academic year. USA Today coordinates all aspects of The Collegiate Readership Program, and all participating newspapers are delivered to displays located in residence halls or other campus locations each morning. A recycling program collects unused copies. The Collegiate Readership Program (CRP), originally created at Penn State University more than a decade ago, currently reaches nearly 500 colleges and universities. Dr. Rosie Phillips Bingham, Vice President for Student Affairs, credits former SGA Presidents Hunter Lang and Tyler Dewitt with lobbying for the program to be here in 2011. The readership program provides students with daily (Monday through Friday) issues of USA Today, The New York Times, The Commercial Appeal and The Jackson Sun (available on the Lambuth campus). Distribution points can be found throughout the main campus and at Lambuth. The level of knowledge and interest in what is happening around the world is heightened by daily access to a variety of newspapers.  The program presents great opportunities for the University of Memphis to foster dialogue and debate, encourage interest in national and global matters, and develop critical thinking skills. Students have quickly embraced the program as one of the real benefits of studying on our campus, says Dr. Rosie Phillips Bingham, adding, “I love that our students want to be well informed citizens of the world.” Its success is to be applauded and it is great to know that we are placing fourteenth among nearly five hundred programs in national readership. Go Tigers! M. David Rudd, President Leave a comment | Jun 04 2014 Committed to Healthy Living at the UofM Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow The University of Memphis is proud to promote healthy living for its students, faculty, staff, and visitors by offering opportunities to move more, eat healthier and become tobacco free. Numerous activities are offered throughout the year as part of Memphis Healthy U, our community wellness initiative. The University was recently recognized by two organizations for its healthy living programs. For the second consecutive year, the U of M was named a finalist in the Mid-South’s Healthiest Employers (500+ employees) awards given by the Memphis Business Journal. Additionally, the Memphis Healthy U initiative was recognized by the Memphis Business Group on Health (MBGH) and the American Heart Association as a “Fit Friendly” workplace. The MBGH is a coalition of local businesses that work together to support and influence healthcare services in the Memphis area. Memphis Healthy U is a collaboration between the Department of Human Resources, School of Public Health, Department of Health and Human Sciences, Loewenberg School of Nursing, Student Health Services, Campus Recreation and Intramural Services, Student Involvement, Tiger Athletics, Alumni Association, Tiger Dining Services/Aramark, SGA, and numerous other departments at the University. Weekly nutrition seminars and Midday Moves activities are offered throughout the spring and fall semesters.  Healthier food options are offered through Tiger Dining and BMI and blood pressure checks through the Loewenberg School of Nursing.   Each of these free events and services have improved the health of our campus community.  As president, I am committed to continuing and expanding these efforts, and I encourage you to take advantage of them. More information on Memphis Healthy U activities can be found at , or by following Midday Moves on Facebook&lt; &gt; and Twitter&lt; &gt;. M. David Rudd, President Leave a comment | Jun 02 2014 Law School&#8217;s Experiential Learning Program Has Stellar Year Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow As we highlight recent student successes all over our campus, I am pleased to share that a record number of law students earned academic credit and valuable legal experience this year through The Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law’s Experiential Learning Program. The Law School’s Experiential Learning Curriculum centers around two distinctive course offerings: The University of Memphis Legal Clinic, a professional law office housed within the walls of the law school, and The University of Memphis Externship Program.  Among the 2013-14 graduating classes, some 104 students &#8212; or 78% of the overall class &#8212; completed either a Clinic or Externship, and 39% completed more than one Clinic or Externship.  Including the 27 students currently enrolled in the Summer Externship Course, Memphis Law students are on pace to complete 139 Externship field placements in Memphis and across Tennessee during the 2013-14 academic year. According to Professor Daniel Schaffzin, the Law School’s Director of Experiential Learning, these statistics are consistent with trends across the national law school landscape and suggest that our law students have never been more engaged in learning through experience. “Students emerge from experiential learning courses that much more ready to practice law and to meet the high expectations of the future clients and employers on whose behalf they will work following graduation,” said Professor Schaffzin.  “As evidenced by the remarkable year we have had and the tremendous growth of our experiential learning curriculum over the last several years, I think that both our students and devoted community legal partners are seeing the advantages of offering a robust set of Legal Clinic and Externship courses.  The Law School is well-positioned to continue building the community collaborations that form the core of our experiential classroom.” Special thanks to Professor Donna Harkness (Director of the Elder Law Clinic), Professor Chris Zawisza (Director of the Child and Family Litigation Clinic), and Professor Steve Shields (Director of the Mediation Clinic) for their incredible teaching, inspired lawyering, and hard work within the University of Memphis Legal Clinic, and to Sandy Love, the Legal Clinic’s Administrative Assistant for her tireless devotion to the Experiential Learning Program.  And I particularly want to recognize Professor Schaffzin for his leadership of a program that brings distinction to the university and advances our commitment to the success of the Memphis community. You can learn more about the University of Memphis School of Law&#8217;s Experiential Learning Program at Go Tigers! M. David Rudd, President Leave a comment | Search for: Recent Posts THEC Funding Recommendations for 2016-2017 Doing is Preserving In Memory of U.S. Senator Fred Thompson Tennessee&#8217;s Next National Research University Performance Funding Score Recent Comments Archives November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 Categories Uncategorized Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS blogs.memphis.edu &copy; The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search