#http://www.memphis.edu/lead/pdfs/student_personnel_program_information.pdf
Student Personnel Concentration M.S. Degree Information Higher and Adult Education Department of Leadership College of Education, Health and Human Sciences University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 - 6172 Contact: Dr. Jeffery L. Wilson Phone: (901) 678 - 3428 Fax: (901) 678 - 1191 Visit our website: - student - personnel.htm A Tennessee Board of Regents Institution An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University Revised: Careers: Higher Education Administrator in: Student Affairs, Student Activities, Student Unions, Financial Aid, Admissions, Intramurals & Recreation, Advising, Career Services, Housing, Residence Life, Greek Life, Leadership, Disability Services, New Student Programs, Athletic s, and other areas of stud ent affairs. Introduction The Masters of Science (M.S.) is a degree designed for individuals seeking to enter the field of student personnel or advance as a student affairs administrator in higher education. The program provides coursework in leadership, research, and student personnel. Using a theory - to - practice model, the program encourages students to apply what they learn in real - life situations through class assignments, graduate assistantships, and internships. The following outcomes will be measured through performance in courses and a portfolio: 1. Leadership skills 2. Communication skills 3. Interpersonal skills 4. Intrapersonal skills 5. Research skills 6. Theory and practice in student personnel Employment Opportunities Students achieving this degree could be emp loyed as higher education administrators in two - and four - year colleges and universities that are private, for profit, or public. Course Requirements This degree requires a minimum of 36 credit hours, including an internship. The following courses are requ ired for the M.S.: LEAD 7000 Introduction to Educational Leadership LEAD 7500 Adult Learning and Leadership LEAD 7100 Education and Community EDPR 7521 Introduction to Educational Research HIAD 7410 Overview of Higher Education HIAD 7440 Student Personnel Services in Higher Education HIAD 7442 College Student Development HIAD 7443 College Environments HIAD 7444 Multiculturalism of College Campuses HIAD 7060 Internship Plus two electives chosen in consultation with your advisor The Department of Leadership as the Source for This Degree Professors in the Higher and Adult Education program of the Department of leadership are qualified to teach courses leading to the degree because they have doctorates in this field of study as well as experience in higher educ ation administration at the institution, state, and system levels. They are active researchers and hold leadership roles in state and national organizations. They also work collaboratively with the Division of Student Affairs at the University of Memphis, Rhodes College, Southwest Tennessee Community College, Christian Brothers College, and other campuses in the region. What the Faculty Do for This Degree Faculty members work with individual students to identify personal interests and career goals as well a s providing advice on ways of achieving these goals. They supervise the degree program and guide the portfolio project of each student, provide program leadership, and maintain relationships with key constituents. They are active in formative and summative evaluation processes to guarantee the Degree Recipients The following persons are among the many who have received this degree: Fletcher Ferguson , Residence Life, University of Memphis Jameel Braddock, New Student & Family Programs, University of Arkansas Khorey Baker, Residence Life, George Mason University Admission Procedures To be admi Graduate School requirements and then complete an application to the program. All requirements for admission or readmission to the university must be completed before registration is authorize d. Graduate School Requirements 1. An application to the Graduate School . When filling it out, indicate that the major is Higher and Adu lt Education with a concentration in Higher Education. Complete the application and submit it. A fee will be charged for submitting the application. 2. An official report of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores. For questions regarding this test, or o ther information regarding the Graduate School, call Graduate School Admissions at 901 - 678 - 2911. The Testing Center at the university is 901 - 678 - 2428. 3. Official transcripts of any prior undergraduate and graduate courses. 4. Three letters on letterhead from pr ofessional references. Department of Leadership Requirements The faculty recommends that you contact and work with our administrative staff at (901) 678-3531 as you prepare your application. They will ensure that your application is complete. HIAD faculty review applications only twice a year; a complete application must be submitted by April 1 or November 1 to be considered for admission. The following are the admission requirements of the Higher and Adult Education program: 1.Letter of application to the department, including a statement of goals and an indication of the concentration you wish to pursue 2.Current resume 3.Official transcripts 4.Current GRE scores 5.Three professional letters of reference For a guide to applying to HIAD programs, please go to You can transfer in only 12 credits into the program; these must be at the appropriate level and cannot have been applied to previous degrees. The faculty will need to review syllabi of these courses to determine if they can be used in the program of study. If you have questions about the process or about the career, feel free to contact: Dr. Jeffery Wilson at J.L.wilson@memphis.edu You are encouraged to enroll in a course prior to applying to the program. You will need to apply for non-degree status to register for the course, but this is a nice way to see if you like us and if the program will satisfy your career needs. Linkage to the Graduate School Web Page For detailed information about doctoral education in the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences click on: , then click on Graduate Handbook Doctoral Degree Programs and on COE Graduate Office Forms (the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences requires some forms that are not required by the Graduate School).