#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11487
Assistant Director, Residence Life Facility Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant Director, Residence Life Facility Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE828 Advertised Title Assistant Director, Residence Life Facility Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 003704 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department Residence Life Minimum Position Qualifications Bachelor&#8217;s degree and 10 years of appropriate experience. Relevant experience may substitute for education requirement. Requires valid Driver&#8217;s License. Special Conditions Work Schedule Monday &#8211; Friday 8:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. Nights and weekends as needed Posting Date 11/13/2015 Closing Date 11/30/2015 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range $51,000-$59,000 per year Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit; use hands to handle, or feel; and talk or hear. The employee frequently is required to walk. The employee is occasionally required to stand; reach with hands and arms; and stoop, kneel, or crouch. The employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to 10 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision. Additional Working Conditions Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Develops and coordinates the five year renovation plan for approximately 800,000 square feet of facility space; manages general maintenance staff and student work crew staff. Duties & Responsibilities Develops long-range plans for major maintenance and modernization of facility systems. Duties & Responsibilities Manages Custodial Supervisor, custodial relief staff, and ensures the overall quality of cleanliness in all assigned facilities. Duties & Responsibilities Manages the development and implementation of policies and procedures and training for department staff including handling of hazardous chemicals, safety standards, and appropriate certifications. Duties & Responsibilities Manages the inventory of all equipment and materials needed in the general maintenance and housekeeping areas; authorizes and approves purchase of additional equipment and supplies within budgetary authority. Duties & Responsibilities Manages the liaison between Residence Life and Physical Plant and Planning and with external contractors. Duties & Responsibilities Provides guidance and direction to employees assigned to work in Residence Life Facilities. Duties & Responsibilities Other duties as assigned Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Please describe your supervisory/management experience and tell us the largest number of employees under your direction at any one time. (Open Ended Question) Describe your facilities management/construction skills. (Open Ended Question) Describe your knowledge and work experiences with developing and facilitating training programs. (Open Ended Question) Describe your use of software to monitor building maintenance schedules and planning. (Open Ended Question) Do you have a valid driver&#x27;s license? YES NO Applicant Documents Required Documents Resume Cover Letter Optional Documents