#http://www.memphis.edu/umtech/service_desk/employment.php
Discover Opportunities - umTech - Information Technology Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. umTech - Information Technology Services Service Support Teaching Smart Tech Students Solutions Service Desk Mission, Vision and Values Get Connected Dashboard Discover Opportunities Technology Coach Service Updates &amp; Alerts Service Desk Contact List Contact Us Home umTech - Information Technology Services Service Desk Discover Opportunities Student Worker Opportunities The ITS Service Desk provides support to all faculty, staff and students. It is comprised of the call center, Center for Teaching and Learning, and Smart Technology Services. We also manage and staff computer labs at the McWherter Library, University TechHub, and Lambuth campus. If you are interested in joining our team enthusiastic student workers, please see our job postings below and fill out an application. IMPORTANT: Only applications submitted by currently enrolled UofM students will be accepted. Position: Technical Assistant Description: Technical Assistants are responsible for providing our clients with 24/7 Tier 1 technical support and customer service. A technical assistant will assist clients over the phone; document and submit support tickets; as well as monitor and maintain our computer labs. Apply Position: Smart Technology Assistant Description: Smart Technology Assistants provide support to faculty and staff with hardware related issues in our Smart Classrooms, including projectors, smart carts, and other audio/visual equipment. Apply Position: Shift Lead Description: Ensures clients are receiving the required level of customer service and support from all Technical Assistants. Additionally, responsible for assisting the Team Lead and full time staff with developing, training, rewarding, coaching, and counseling trainees. Apply Position : Sandbox Assistant Description : Sandbox Assistants are stationed in the Technology Sandbox in the McWherter Library. They assist users with a variety of new and emerging technologies including 3D printers, GIS software, and CAD programs. Apply Position : Team Leader Description : Ensures clients are receiving the required level of customer service and support from all Technical Assistants. Responsible for assisting the full time staff with developing and coaching Technical Assistants and Shift Leads. To be considered for this position, you must be a current Technical Assistant. Apply Service Desk Mission, Vision and Values Get Connected Dashboard Discover Opportunities Technology Coach Service Updates &amp; Alerts Service Desk Contact List Contact Us Let Us Help! Call 901.678.8888. Available Now. Chat Live Monday - Friday 8:00 am - 7:00 pm CDT Ask Tom Search this collection of questions and answers to find solutions to a variety of technical problems. New Service Desk System Learn more about the new service support system. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .