#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/admissions/
Admissions - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Admissions Information Residency Classification Admission to Masters Degree Programs Admission to Doctoral Degree Programs Admission to Education Specialist Program Admission of International Students Readmission Requirements Other Admission Regulations Miscellaneous Information Home Graduate Catalog Admissions Admission Regulations Admission to the Graduate School is open to anyone holding a bachelor's or master's degree from an accredited college or university. Applicants should have completed undergraduate or graduate work of sufficient quality and scope to enable them to successfully pursue graduate study. The University of Memphis offers equal educational opportunity to all persons, without regard to race, religion, sex, age, creed, color, national origin, or physical handicap. Students are admitted to the University of Memphis through a cooperative effort of the Graduate School and the departments, colleges, and schools of the University. When the Graduate School receives the student's application material, an official file is established and reviewed. The department then reviews the application file and makes a recommendation to the Graduate School. The Graduate School notifies applicants as soon as a decision has been reached. Applicants are required to meet admissions criteria established by the Graduate School in order to enroll in graduate courses. In order to be admitted to a degree program in any academic unit, applicants are also required to meet any additional standards set by the unit or college. Applicants are selected on a competitive basis and, therefore, admission is not granted to all applicants who meet only the minimum requirements. Past behavior and classroom performance can be considered in admissions decisions. Some academic programs have individual application forms and additional requirements such as portfolios, proficiency examinations, auditions, etc. Individual program requirements described in the University of Memphis Graduate Bulletin 2015-2016, are subject to change. Please contact the academic department or the Graduate School for changes. Domestic graduate admission applications will only be accepted through Self-Service Banner. The Office of Admissions no longer accepts hard-copy (paper) applications. Please visit the Graduate School web site for program addresses, deadlines, and additional information. Deadlines and requirements may differ for each program. Prospective students should check with the appropriate program for specific deadlines and admissions requirements. For admission to a degree program, applicants should allow approximately three to six weeks from date of receipt of complete application for the necessary credentials to be processed by the appropriate degree program and the Graduate School. Applicants are urged to apply early to ensure full consideration. Late domestic applicants may be admitted as graduate non-degree students and as such are not guaranteed placement in specific programs; some classes may be closed to non-degree students. International applicants should allow at least four months for the application process; they can not be admitted as non-degree students. All applications must be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee ($35.00 for domestic applicants; $60.00 for international applicants), unless previously paid. Applications received without the application fee will not be processed. The University of Memphis requires all applicants born after January 1957 to have had the measles (MMR) vaccination after January 1, 1980, in order to be admitted. See "Miscellaneous Information" for additional information. Return completed applications and required credentials to Graduate Admissions, 200 Wilder Tower, University of Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee 38152-3520. The applicant is advised to have all credentials on file well in advance (preferable six weeks) of the beginning of the term for which application is made. See " Admission of International Students " for details about additional requirements for international applicants. All credentials become the property of the University and will not be forwarded or returned. If the applicant does not enroll, credentials will be maintained in active files for 12 months, after which they will be destroyed. After that time, candidates must reapply for admission and submit a new set of credentials if they wish to be admitted to the Graduate School. Students who do not enroll for a Fall or Spring semester must apply for readmission. Admissions Information Residency Classification Admission to Masters Degree Programs Admission to Doctoral Degree Programs Admission to Education Specialist Program Admission of International Students Readmission Requirements Other Admission Regulations Miscellaneous Information Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .