#http://www.memphis.edu/mlche/academics/publications.php
Publications - MLCHE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics About Programs Students Faculty &amp; Staff Research News About Us Research Publications Resources Other U of M Research Centers Staff &amp; Associates Policies &amp; Annual Reports Contact Us Home MLCHE Academics Publications Publications MLCHE publishes reports on a variety of topics. Please choose a topic below to read our reports or click here to see a list of our peer-reviewed research articles. Health Policy Blog | Health Care Reform | TennCare | Hospitalizations | Emergency Department Use Market Analyses | Child Care Health Policy Blog 2015 Health Insurance Exchanges: Who in Tennessee has Enrolled? October 2015 Variations in Health Care Charges: Does Anyone Know How Much It Will Cost? August 2015 Primary Care in Tennessee: The Gap between Demand and Physician Supply July 2015 Top Health Care Reform 2012 Health Reform Impacts in Tennessee January 2012 2010 Health Reform Impacts in Shelby County, Tennessee December 2010 Top TennCare 2014 TennCare Timeline October 2014 2008 TennCare Lawsuit History 2008 Hospitalizations 2012 Issue Brief: Non-urgent ED Use in Shelby County, Tennessee” August 2012 Issue Brief: Potentially Avoidable Hospitalizations in Shelby County, Tennessee, 2009 May 2012 2011 Issue Brief: Potentially Avoidable Hospitalizations May 2011 2010 Issue Brief: Potentially Avoidable Hospitalizations July 2010 Fact Sheet: Potentially Avoidable Hospitalizations April 2010 Trends in Potentially Avoidable Hospitalizations for Tennessee Adults: 1998-2006 March 2010 2008 Potentially Avoidable Hospitalizations in Tennessee, 2004 and 2005 August 2008 Potentially Avoidable Pediatric Hospitalizations in Tennessee, 2005 August 2008 2007 Potentially Avoidable Hospitalizations in Tennessee, 2004 December 2007 Potentially Avoidable Hospitalizations in Tennessee, 2003 April 2007 2006 Tennessee Inpatient Discharges, 2002 June 2006 Potentially Avoidable Hospitalizations in Tennessee, 2002: Final Report May 2006 Potentially Avoidable Hospitalizations in Tennessee, 2002 March 2006 Top Emergency Department Visits 2015 Visitors to Hospital Emergency Rooms: Who, Why, and How Much Do They Cost? July 7, 2015 Common Myths About ED Use and Overcrowding By Cyril Chang, M Paige Powell and Xinhua Yu June 24, 2015 2011 Non-Urgent ED Use in Tennessee, 2008 August 5, 2011 2007 Non-Urgent ED Use in Tennessee, 2004 September 2007 Top Market Analyses 2009 Economic Contributions of the Memphis Medical Community Summer/Fall 2009 in Business Perspectives , free at The Sparks Business Bureau 2006 An In-Depth Analysis of the Shelby County Hospital Market January 2006 2004 Memphis and Shelby County Hospitals: 1990-2002 January 2004 Top Child Care 2005 The Child Care Industry in Four Major Urban Counties in Tennessee Summer 2005 in Business Perspectives , free at The Sparks Business Bureau The Economic Impact of the Child Care Industry in Shelby County, Tennessee Summer 2005 in Business Perspectives , free at The Sparks Business Bureau The Economic Impact of Child Care in Shelby County, Tennessee (presentation) February 2005 2004 The Child Care Industry in Tennessee (presentation) August 2004 The Economic Impact of Child Care in Shelby County, Tennessee August 2004 Top About Us Research Publications Resources Other U of M Research Centers Staff &amp; Associates Policies &amp; Annual Reports Contact Us About Us What does the MLCHE do? Your first step starts here! Publications Stay connected with our research-active faculty. Click here to see some of our most recent publications. Staff and Associates Learn more about the people that compose the MLCHE! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .