#http://www.memphis.edu/step/research/research_team.php
Research Team - STEP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Systems Testing Excellence Program Research Programs Events Research Call for Proposals Publications Research Advisors Research Resources Research Team Home STEP Research Research Team STEP Researchers and Competencies Charles J. Campbell, Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering/Operations Research (University of Texas - Austin, 1975) Research Expertise/Interests: Mathematical modeling of testing problems Optimization aspects of systems testing Jasbir Dhaliwal, Ph.D. Management Information Systems (University of British Columbia, 1993) Research Expertise/Interests: Strategic Test-Driven Development Validation Theory &amp; Frameworks for Systems Testing Risk/Return Assessments for Testing Mark Gillenson, Ph.D. Computer and Information Science (Ohio State University, 1974) Research Expertise/Interests: Integrating Systems Testing Into All SDLC stages Risk-based Systems Testing Systems Testing Skills &amp; Competencies Radhika Jain, Ph.D. Computer Information Systems (Georgia State University, 2006) Research Expertise/Interests: Knowledge Management in Software Testing Software Reviewing Software Quality Management Ted E. Lee, Ph.D. Management Information Systems (University of Nebraska - Lincoln, 1996) Research Expertise/Interests: Project Management for Software Testing Integration of Testing and Implementation Into Development Knowledge Engineering and Management for Systems Testing Thomas O. Meservy, Ph.D. Management Information Systems (University of Arizona, 2007) Research Expertise/Interests: Software Development and Testing Methodologies Agile Software Development and Testing Test Driven Development Automated Testing Tools and Techniques Software Quality &amp; Metrics Interface Testing Colin Onita, Ph.D. Management Information Systems (University of Memphis, 2011) Research Expertise/Interests: Strategic Test-Driven Development Valuation of Testing Services Frameworks for Systems Testing Robin Poston, Ph.D. Management Information Systems (Michigan State University, 2003) Research Expertise/Interests: Performance Evaluation Models and Measurement Metrics for Testing Environments Best Practices for Outsourcing Software Testing Inter-Cultural and Communication Differences with Offshore Testing Vendors Sandra Richardson, Ph.D. Management Information Systems (University of Central Florida, 2006) Research Expertise/Interests: Retention and Distribution of Expert Knowledge in Software Testing Environments Cognitive Differences Amongst Software Development and Testing Groups Multi-method Approach to Software Testing Vasile Rus, Ph.D. Computer Science (Southern Methodist University, 2002) Research Expertise/Interests: Quantitative Approaches to Software Testing Process Optimization of Test Planning and Implementation Knowledge Acquisition for Systems Testing Linda Sherrell, Ph.D. Computer Science (Louisiana State University, 1995) Research Expertise/Interests: Risk-based Testing Testing in Agile Development Methodologies Testing Processes and Process Improvement Sajjan Shiva, Ph.D. Computer Engineering (Auburn University, 1975) Research Expertise/Interests: Embedded Development/Test Strategies Test Standards (CMMI) and SDLC Integration Knowledge-based Testing Judith Simon, Ed.D. Business Education (Oklahoma State University, 1976) Research Expertise/Interests: Management of Cultural Differences of Software Testing Teams Vendor Management Strategies Management of Software Testing Needs with Tester Characteristics and Capabilities Thomas Stafford, Ph.D. Management Information Systems (University of Texas - Arlington, 2001) Research Expertise/Interests: Offshore Management of Systems Testing Teams Assessment of Systems Testing Processes and Procedures Assessment of Behaviors and Motivations of Systems Testing Personnel Instrumentation and Validation of Measures for Systems Testing Assessment Processes Lan Wang, Ph.D. Computer Science (University of California - Los Angeles, 2004) Research Expertise/Interests: Design of Robust and Scalable Networking Protocols Prevention and Mitigation of Internet Denial of Service Attacks and Worm Attacks Software Security Testing/Network Security Testing Mohammed Yeasin, Ph.D. Electrical Engineering (Indian Institute of Technology – Bombay, 1998) Research Expertise/Interests: Integration and Security Testing Modeling and Testing Intelligent Software Usability Testing Chen Zhang, Ph.D. Management Information Systems (Purdue University, 2008) Research Expertise/Interests: Software Quality Management Knowledge Management and Knowledge Integration in Systems Testing Project Management for Software Testing Xihui "Paul" Zhang, Ph.D. Management Information Systems (University of Memphis, 2009) Research Expertise/Interests: Software Development and Testing Methodologies Behavioral and Managerial Aspects of Software Development and Testing Research Call for Proposals Publications Research Advisors Research Resources Research Team About Us What does STEP do? Discover the answer here! CAST Learn more about the Cluster to Advance Security &amp; Testing. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .