#http://www.memphis.edu/physics/SHOPP/2015-spring-topics.php
2015-spring-topics - Department of Physics and Materials Science - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Physics and Materials Science About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources SPS Memphis SHOPP Information About Memphis SHOPP Fall 2015 Topics Spring 2016 Topics Spring 2015 Topics (archived) Sign Up! Home Department of Physics and Materials Science Memphis SHOPP 2015-spring-topics Spring 2015 Topics Dates of classes: February 14 - April 25, 2015 Classes meet every Saturday in manning hall room 201 for 2 hours (9:30 am – 11:30 am). There will be intense development in three critical areas: fundamental conceptual development, connection to real-world experiences through scientific inquiry and Critical thinking skills using mathematical applications and problem solving at the single-variable calculus level. With the learning cycle to be used, students will encounter engagement, exploration, explanation, extension, and evaluation. Animation and short videos will be used in some instance in order to engage students in initial activities to introduce questions before moving to exploration and explanation. This will also initiate discourse between students where opportunities to address misconceptions will often surface. The labs would predominantly be hands-on and will rely on more fundamental equipment and graphs would be plotted by hand. Occasionally, a Pasco data collection and analysis system would be used so students would be prepared for different techniques. Students will work in small groups in order to promote group work in a variety of ways beginning with experimental design and report writing. Students are expected to maintain two folders, one for the overview and another for the lab activities. Spring 2015 Topics Part I: Motion &amp; Kinetics Motion in 1D Displacement &amp; Distance Velocity &amp; Speed Acceleration Motion in 2D Vectors Addition &amp; Subtraction Multiplication Part II: Forces Newton's Laws Frictional Forces Impulse Part III: Work Energy and Power Work done Energy Kinetic energy Potential energy Thermal energy Internal energy Power The next six sessions will cover the following topics Work Energy and Power – March 21st 2015 Data storage on DVDs and Blue-rays – March 28th 2015 The importance of ray optics to bio-physics research – April 4th 2015 An Amazing Cosmic Perspective, the Busy Lives of Stars, and the Strange Things They Leave Behind – April 11th 2015 Nuclear Physics and our World – April 18th 2015 Space Materials – April 25th 2015 Memphis SHOPP Information About Memphis SHOPP Fall 2015 Topics Spring 2016 Topics Spring 2015 Topics (archived) Sign Up! Apply Now Now accepting applications for the Undergraduate and Graduate Programs! Contact Us Main office location and numbers, undergraduate and graduate advising... Seminars &amp; Events The department presents weekly seminars during the spring and fall semesters... Careers in Physics and Materials Science Find out what opportunities are available to you with a degree in Physics and Materials Science... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .