#http://blogs.memphis.edu/president/2014/05/
The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog | Archives | 2014 | May Main menu Skip to content Home About the President The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog Search for: Monthly Archives: May 2014 May 29 2014 Looking good, Lambuth Campus! Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow There is nothing like new signage to let the neighborhood know of our U of M pride on Lambuth Boulevard.  Thanks to Linda Bonnin and her team for the attractive new pole banners.  And a special thanks to our community partners, the City of Jackson, for graciously installing them free of charge. A win/win for everyone. Nothing better than attractive curb appeal, don’t you agree! Go Tigers! M. David Rudd, President Leave a comment | May 22 2014 Summer reading Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow Faculty, Students and Staff: You have recently received email from Dr. Shannon Blanton, Vice Provost for Undergraduate Programs, sharing our inaugural volume of QuaesitUM , the new undergraduate research journal of the University of Memphis&#8211;fresh off the press.  An electronic version is available as well:  I want to encourage you to have a look and this issue, and to join me in celebrating the accomplishments of these young scholars. The seven articles showcase peer reviewed undergraduate research from all disciplines. Editor-in-Chief Dr. Sage Lambert Graham writes in the preface to QuaesitUM, “Our vision was to include rigorous research that provides something new– a new perspective, a new experimental design, a new tested result. This is the heart of scholarship – asking new questions. Thus, the name of the journal – QuaesitUM: to seek or to ask. This volume of selected undergraduate research papers is the embodiment of what we would like the University of Memphis to represent – quality scholarly work that emerges from asking questions and exploring new perspectives.” Dr. Blanton’s Letter published in the first issue reminds us of the importance of what this new publication represents: “As one of America’s great metropolitan research universities, the University of Memphis is strongly committed to integrating research into our undergraduate students’ academic experience. For undergraduate students, the research process enables a deeper investigation of questions of keen interest; on a more personal level, it also facilitates collaboration between students and faculty.” Please allow this to be part of your summer reading and share the pride in our students’ accomplishments so persuasively on display in the first issue of QuaesitUM . Go Tigers! M. David Rudd, President Leave a comment | May 19 2014 Thanks to our veterans Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow Notes of thanks from students are always welcome and moving, but this one really hit home for me. It reminds me that our university serves many student constituencies, and that each comes with its own set of special challenges and commitments. When you read the letter I received from Member of the graduating class of 2014 Dennis E. Lee, HM1 (AW) USN (RET), I think you will see why this one holds a special place for me. The gratitude we owe our veterans is enormous, and we are privileged to assist them along their way in life. Please take a moment to read his thanks and also his challenge to us as citizens and members of the U of M community. M. David Rudd, President Dear friends, On behalf of the entire veteran population on every campus, I want to thank the faculty and staff for the constant effort to ensure our special paperwork and needs are met, ensuring us a wonderful experience at University of Memphis. Your assistance was always quick and on point and directly aimed at solving any problems.  Your support was a huge factor in our graduation or continued enrollment. While the faculty and staff went about fixing and tracking our paperwork for us we could turn to our jobs as students without worry. For the many times we had to trust others to have our back, while serving, it was a nice feeling to know that same situation happen here as well. To our fellow alumni and students, we appreciate the warmth and welcome you give each one of us.  Your respect and appreciation for our service was, for me, very uplifting. Being thanked for our service makes us feel somewhat humbled to be seen as heroes or praised in such ways.  For us, we simply see our service as a job we did. I certainly don&#8217;t think I&#8217;m a hero. Crazy for working a flight deck? Maybe, but hero? That’s some one else.  I personally thank you and I&#8217;m sure other veterans will agree that it is nice to be appreciated for it. Now for those of you reading this email- please know that the one thing any veteran wants more than any medal, or recognition is very simple. We want you to never take any action that makes our service, our sacrifices and the sacrifices of our families to be not worth it. In short, go and be productive members of society. Your words of thanks are easy; the action I request may be hard at times. Actions prove the words. Show us, that our efforts are, and were, worth every missed birth, birthday, first steps, graduations, first tooth lost, anniversaries and all the holidays. As I adjust to a life away from the life of a student, I want to charge you all with one last thing.  I urge you all to take the time to appreciate where you are and treat each other respectfully. Again thank you everyone for the best you&#8217;ve given to my fellow veterans and myself. Much Respect, Dennis E Lee HM1 (AW) USN (RET) Class of 2014 Leave a comment | Search for: Recent Posts THEC Funding Recommendations for 2016-2017 Doing is Preserving In Memory of U.S. Senator Fred Thompson Tennessee&#8217;s Next National Research University Performance Funding Score Recent Comments Archives November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 Categories Uncategorized Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS blogs.memphis.edu &copy; The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search