#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/fcbe/mgmt.php
(MGMT) MANAGEMENT - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions (MGMT) MANAGEMENT MGMT (MGMT) MANAGEMENT Charles A. Pierce, Ph.D., Chair Room 202, FCBE Administration Building Students must have earned a minimum of 45 credit hours and have met specific course prerequisites with a minimum grade of “C” to be eligible for all 3000 and 4000 level courses. In addition to these requirements, students seeking a degree in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics must have (1) completed all required lower division business courses with a minimum grade of “C” in each; (2) minimum of 2.25 GPA (2.5 for accounting majors) in all required lower division business courses and MATH 1830, 1421, or 1910, and (3) 45 hours of course work including MATH 1830, 1421, or 1910, COMM 2381 and 9 hours of English (See B.B.A. Degree Requirements-General Requirements). A surcharge of $35 per credit hour for 3000 and 4000 level courses and $35 per credit hour for 6000-9000 level courses has been approved by the Tennessee Board of Regents. The purpose of the surcharge on these business courses is to guarantee the continuous improvement of the college and compliance with the standards of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business International (AACSB International). In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MGMT 4110-19. Special Topics in Management. (3). Topics varied and in online class listings. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MGMT 1010 - Intro to Business (2) Overview of practices applicable for addressing the personal and professional development challenges of business and entrepreneurship; introduction to elementary concepts of business; orientation toward selection of major and information on business career opportunities. NOTE: if taken by students with 50 credit hours or more, credit will not count for the B.B.A. degree. MGMT 2820 - Intro to Entrepreneurship (3) This course is designed to empower students to think globally; identify distinct competencies locally; develop a personal mission statement; explain individual pathways by some of the leading entrepreneurs; identify opportunities for aspiring entrepreneurs; eliminate roadblocks to creativity; create outline to launch your own business. MGMT 3110 - Organization and Mgmt (3) Comprehensive survey of basic management concepts, principles, and function; coverage in planning, organizing, leading and controlling organizational resources to achieve objectives; overview of decision-making within the context of organizational global environment, strategy, organizational structures, culture, human capital, ethics and corporate social responsibility and performance. MGMT 3215 - Mgmt of Human Resources (3) Human resources as a strategic competitive advantage; human resource functions including recruiting, staffing, training, development, performance management, total compensation, employee relations, unions, workplance safety and health, and employee retention; impact of legal context on human resources. MGMT 3510 - Business Communications (3) Communication theory applied to business and the professions; emphasis on effective writing; employment messages, and selection and use of research sources for written and oral reports; use of technololgy to facilitate the communicaiton process and document preparation; consideration of business ethics, interpersonal, nonberbal and intercultural communication. PREREQUISITE: MIS 2749, or equivalent. MGMT 3812 - Managing Employee Wellness (3) Overview of employee wellness programs, their impact on employee retention,productivity, healthcare costs, and other critical organizational outcomes; emphasis on the importance of personal health, legal and human behavior issues of employee wellness program implementation, and the development of an organizational culture of health. MGMT 4240 - Compensation Perform Appraisal (3) Examination of the administration of compensation and performance management systems; use of job descriptions, job analysis, and job evaluation methods; employee benefits administration; global issues in compensation and preformance management. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110, 3215, 3510. MGMT 4251 - Employee Relations (3) Theories and practices in employee relations and manager's role in building and maintaining positive employee relationships; development of skills in conflict resolution and negotiation in human resource and management context; understanding labor unions, union organizing, and collective bargaining process; examination of ethical and legal issues relevant to employee relations. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110, 3215, 3510. MGMT 4260 - Employee Staff/Devlpmnt (3) Examination of the process of stragegic recruitment, selection, and development of top talent in organizations; understanding and planning for talent needs, use of current recruitment methods and selection techniques of both internal and external talent pools, and the development of internal talent for retention and promotion. Legal context of employment decision-making is emphasized. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110, 3215, 3510. MGMT 4420 - Orgnztl Behavior in Business (3) Evidence-based learning of individual and group behavior and processes in order to improve organizational effectiveness and efficiency; emphasis is placed on the systematic study of personality, work attitudes and motivation, groups and team processes, leadership and organization structure and design. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110, 3510. MGMT 4461 - Managerial Leadership (3) Examination of leadership in business organizations; critical evaluation of the meaning and practice of leadership; coverage of philosophy, psychology, process and outcomes of leadership; individual perspective of self-leadership. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110, 3510. MGMT 4481 - Teamwork/Group Dyn/Org (3) Process of group dynamics in organizations and development of groups into high performing teams; emphasis on most effective context for team formation; selection process of team members and roles these members play in team's success; development of individual and team competencies; managing conflict within a team; particular challenges that necessary utilization of virtual and dispersed teams pose to organizational performance. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110 and 3510. MGMT 4510 - Interntl Business Communictn (3) Importance of business communication in conducting global business effectively; emphasis on organizational and interpersonal communication as well as negotiation skills needed in an integrated world economy; culture-based assumptions, contrasting cultural values, communication and negotiation strategies, verbal and nonverbal patterns, cultural shock, and country specific information. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3510. MGMT 4710 - Strategic Mgmt (3) Advanced problems in determination, execution, and control of strategic management process in light of changing environments in which organizations operate. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110, 3510, and senior standing in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Enrollment limited to graduating seniors. MGMT 4810 - International Mgmt (3) Introduction of management practices, concepts, and functions within the international and cultural environment; conveage of managing within the context of social, cultural, legal, economic, political, and technological constraints; ethics and social responsibility, sustainability, cross-cultural decision making and negotiation, strategy, systems of operation, staffing global operations, organizational structures, and performance. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110, 3510. MGMT 4820 - Entrepreneurship (3) Initiation process of new business venture. Students participate in individual and team activities to acquaint them with opportunities and skills needed for business initiation and development. PREREQUISITE: MGMT 3110 and 3510, or UNIV 2555. MGMT 4910 - Management Problems (1-3) Student conducts approved research projects in his or her major area under supervision of staff members. PREREQUISITE: senior standing and permission of department chair. MGMT 4911 - Internship In Mgmt (1-6) Internship in business organization to gain on-the-job experience. Project to be approved and supervised by departmental faculty. Credit allowed upon acceptance of report. PREREQUISITE: 2.75 overall GPA and completed 15 hours in Upper Division core. MGMT 4920 - Mgmt Problems/Entrepreneurship (1-3) Student conducts approved research or projects in student's chosen area of entrepreneurial activity under the supervision of a faculty member and, preferably, in consultation with an entrepreneur or team. Related to the independent study, the student must participate in an approved entrepreneurship/incubator/accelerator competition, i.e., held by the Crews Ventures Lab. MGMT 4921 - Internship in Entrepreneurship (1-6) Internship in an entrepreneurial setting to gain on-the-job experience. Project to be approved and supervised by departmental faculty. Credit allowed upon acceptance of final portfolio. PREREQUISITE: 2.75 overall GPA and completed 15 hours in upper-division core. MGMT 4996 - Senior Honors Thesis (3) Independent research open only to those students enrolled in the Honors Program. Thesis supervised by departmental faculty member. PREREQUISITE: senior standing and permission of the Director of the Honors Program. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .