#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11486
Associate Dean of Students, Residence Life Dining and Child Development Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Associate Dean of Students, Residence Life Dining and Child Development Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE766 Advertised Title Associate Dean of Students, Residence Life Dining and Child Development Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 012893 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department Residence Life Minimum Position Qualifications Master&#8217;s degree in relevant area and 10 years of appropriate experience. Relevant experience may substitute for required education. Special Conditions The next screening will take place on November 11,2015 Work Schedule Monday &#8211; Friday 8:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. This position will require the need to work/travel beyond normal work schedule to include The University of Memphis Lambuth Campus in Jackson, TN. Posting Date 08/28/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range Commensurate with experience Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit, use hands to handle or feel, and talk or hear. The employee frequently is required to walk. The employee is occasionally required to stand, reach with hands and arms, and stoop, kneel, or crouch. The employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to 10 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision. Additional Working Conditions Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Develops and manages budgets for housing, dining services and the child development center exceeding $25 million in revenue. Duties & Responsibilities Oversees development of goals, processes, and operations of the Residence Halls and Dining Service Operations and the Child Development Center.Responsible for Residence Life and Dining Services at The University of Memphis Lambuth Campus in Jackson, TN. Duties & Responsibilities Provides customer service in meeting with students, parents and other University employees in areas of dining, child care and housing functions, activities, discipline, and facility management. Duties & Responsibilities Provides daily supervision of a management team that supervises approximately 375 employees, including contract labor. Duties & Responsibilities Responsible for managing 1,000,000 square feet of buildings and facilities. Duties & Responsibilities Other duties as assigned Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Resume Cover Letter Optional Documents