#http://www.memphis.edu/mlche/academics/staff.php
Staff and Associates - MLCHE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics About Programs Students Faculty &amp; Staff Research News About Us Research Publications Resources Other U of M Research Centers Staff &amp; Associates Policies &amp; Annual Reports Contact Us Home MLCHE Academics Staff and Associates Staff and Associates Cyril F. Chang , Director Dr. Cyril Chang, the Director of Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics, is a Suzanne Downs Palmer Professor in Economic at the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, The University of Memphis. Dr. Chang received his Ph.D. in economics from The University of Virginia and has been with the University of Memphis since 1981. He teaches Health Care Economics and Executive MBA Economics, and regularly conducts executive training seminars and workshops for health care professionals and executives. Read more Senior Research Fellows Dr. John E. Gnuschke , Senior Research Fellow Dr. John E. Gnuschke is Director of the Sparks Bureau of Business and Economic Research (SBBER) and the Center for Manpower Studies (CMS) and Professor of Economics at the University of Memphis. The SBBER and CMS are the applied business, economic, and labor market research divisions of the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Dr. Gnuschke also serves as the Director of the Applied Information Technology Center and is Co-Director of the Center for Real Estate Research. The divisions support the research and publication efforts of faculty members and interact with other research organizations, government agencies, and the business community. Read more Dr. David M. Mirvis, Senior Research Fellow Dr. David M. Mirvis received his MD degree from the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University in 1970, and subsequently trained in internal medicine and cardiology at the National Institutes of Health and at the University of Tennessee. He joined the faculty of the University of Tennessee College of Medicine in 1975 and was the founder and the Director of the University’s Center for Health Services Research. In addition, he served as Chief of Cardiology and Chief of Staff of the Memphis VA Medical Center and as an Associate Dean of the University of Tennessee College of Medicine. Read more Dr. Albert A. Okunade , Senior Research Fellow Albert A. Okunade, Ph.D., is Economics Professor and faculty affiliate at the Center for Community Health (School of Public Health), and the African &amp; African American Studies Program (Interdisciplinary Studies) at the University of Memphis. He Coordinates the Ph.D. Economics program, teaches Graduate healthcare and pharmaceutical economics courses, and supervises Ph. D. Dissertations in Applied Microeconomics including Health care. His research honors include Suzanne Downs-Palmer Professorship, First Tennessee Professorship, Superior Performance in University Research (SPUR) and the University’s Distinguished Research awards. Dr. Marla Royne Stafford , Senior Research Fellow Dr. Marla Royne Stafford is Great Oaks Foundation Professor of Marketing and chair of the Department of Marketing &amp; Supply Chain Management in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics, The University of Memphis. Dr. Stafford received her Ph.D. in marketing from The University of Georgia and has been with the University of Memphis since 2001. Dr. Stafford’s research interests focus primarily on social marketing or the utilization of effective marketing strategies to develop and implement programs to promote socially beneficial behavior change. Read more Dr. Charlene P. Spiceland , Research Fellow Charlene P. Spiceland, PhD, CMA, CPA, is Assistant Professor in the School of Accountancy at the University of Memphis where she has developed and taught graduate courses in healthcare accounting and financial accounting for the MBA for Nurses Program. She received her PhD at the University of Memphis in 2013 for which her dissertation examines the effects the Affordable Care Act on the healthcare industry, particularly as it applies to both nonprofit and for-profit hospitals. One paper from her dissertation has been published in the International Journal of Management Accounting Research. She is part of a research team consisting of a group of physicians from Johns Hopkins University and Cincinnati Children’s Hospital. Read more Soumitra Bhuyan, PhD, MPH, Research Fellow Soumitra Bhuyan, PhD, MPH is an Assistant Professor in the Division of Health Systems Management and Policy at the School of Public Health, The University of Memphis. Dr. Bhuyan received his PhD in health services research, administration and policy from the University of Nebraska Medical Center in 2014. His primary research interests include Health Information Systems Management, Health Disparity, and Health Care Workforce. Some of Dr. Bhuyan’s papers have appeared in journals such as Breast Cancer Research and Treatment, Journal of Medical Systems, International Journal of Medical Informatics, Journal of Cardiovascular Disease Research, Obesity Research and Clinical Practice etc. Prior to joining the University of Memphis, Dr. Bhuyan worked as a research assistant for the Center for Health Policy at the University of Nebraska Medical Center where he published several policy briefings related to primary care workforce. These policy briefings were cited in local and national media outlets including the Associated Press. Dr. Bhuyan was the recipient of the “Rising Star” award from the American Public Health Association’s Health Administration Section in 2013. The award recognizes outstanding potential in the field of health administration and public health practice. Dr. Bhuyan is currently serving as a Section Councilor for the APHA Health Administration Section (2014-2017) and sits on the AcademyHealth's Health Workforce Interest Group advisory committee. M. Paige Powell, PhD, Research Fellow Dr. Paige Powell is an Assistant Professor in the Division of Health Systems Management and Policy at the University of Memphis School of Public Health. Dr. Powell received her PhD in Health Policy and Administration from Penn State University and her Master of Health Administration from the University of Memphis. Her research interests focus on the impact of various health policies on the use of healthcare services. Dr. Powell is particularly interested in analyzing the impact of provisions of the Affordable Care Act on service use both in Memphis and across the nation. Dr. Powell has been published in the Journal of Health Administration Education, The Diabetes Educator, the American Journal of Medical Quality, and has co-authored papers in Health Affairs, Inquiry, and the Journal of Health Politics, Policy, and Law. Dr. Powell returned to the University of Memphis in 2013 as a faculty member in the School of Public Health. She teaches Applied Health Policy Analysis, Health Policy Theory and Methods, and Health Services Research. Affiliated Researchers Bill Cecil, M.B.A. Mr. Bill Cecil is an independent health care consultant. He was formerly the Director of Health Policy Research for BlueCross and BlueShield of Tennessee and brings over 30 years of experience as a former hospital and insurance executive to the Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Healthcare Economics. He contributes to the work of the Center with his intimate knowledge about how hospitals and health plans work his ability to bridge theory and practice in health care. About Us Research Publications Resources Other U of M Research Centers Staff &amp; Associates Policies &amp; Annual Reports Contact Us About Us What does the MLCHE do? Your first step starts here! Publications Stay connected with our research-active faculty. Click here to see some of our most recent publications. Staff and Associates Learn more about the people that compose the MLCHE! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .