#http://www.memphis.edu/benefits/aca.php
Affordable Care Act - University Benefits Administration - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Benefits Administration Staff Directory Benefits Information Related Resources &amp; Links Human Resources Home University Benefits Administration Affordable Care Act Affordable Care Act The Affordable Care Act (ACA), also known as health care reform, has created new rules that make some employee groups eligible for medical benefits when they had previously been considered ineligible. As more guidelines are issued and rules clarified, the information at this site will be updated. Any of the employee groups below working on average at least 30 hours per week over a specified measurement period will be considered a full-time, medical benefits-eligible employee, effective January 1, 2015. There are four main groups that ACA affects: Temporary employees Adjunct faculty/part-time instructors Undergraduate and graduate student employees Graduate Assistants Temporary employees Hours worked will be tracked as appropriate to make the final determination of average hours worked over the measurement period. Beginning January 1, 2015, if the employee is reasonable expected to work an average of 30 hours per week or more at the time of hire, then the employee must be offered coverage upon hire. The coverage, if elected, will be effective the first of the month following the hire date. If the number of hours an employee will work cannot be determined at the time of hire, then the employee is considered a "variable hour employee". Under these circumstances, the hours worked over a 10 month measurement period will be calculated to determine eligibility. If determined to have worked an average of 30 hours per week, the employee will be notified of eligibility of coverage with a 60 day enrollment period. The effective date of coverage will be the end of the 60 day enrollment period. [Return to top] Adjunct/part-time instructors To determine the average hours worked for instructors, the following formula will be used to convert adjunct credit hours to equivalent clock hours: Multiply the hours taught by 2.5 and that number by the number of weeks in the term. Example: Adjunct teaches 6 credit hours = 6 X 2.5 = 15 hours/week. This method allows the hours to be converted to a weekly basis, addressing the issues of different lengths of terms and adjuncts who also have part-time hourly positions in addition to the teaching responsibilities. Beginning January 1, 2015, if the employee is reasonable expected to work an average of 30 hours per week or more at the time of hire, then the employee must be offered coverage upon hire. The coverage, if elected, will be effective the first of the month following the hire date. If the number of hours an employee will work cannot be determined at the time of hire, then the employee is considered a "variable hour employee". Under these circumstances, the hours worked over a 10 month measurement period will be calculated to determine eligibility. If determined to have worked an average of 30 hours per week, the employee will be notified of eligibility of coverage with a 60 day enrollment period. The effective date of coverage will be the end of the 60 day enrollment period. [Return to top] Undergraduate and graduate student employees Hour worked will be tracked to make the final determination of average hours worked over the measurement period. Beginning January 1, 2015, if the employee is reasonable expected to work an average of 30 hours per week or more at the time of hire, then the employee must be offered coverage upon hire. The coverage, if elected, will be effective the first of the month following the hire date. If the number of hours an employee will work cannot be determined at the time of hire, then the employee is considered a "variable hour employee". Under these circumstances, the hours worked over a 10 month measurement period will be calculated to determine eligibility. If determined to have worked an average of 30 hours per week, the employee will be notified of eligibility of coverage with a 60 day enrollment period. The effective date of coverage will be the end of the 60 day enrollment period. Graduate Assistants The University has a current practice that allows for graduate assistants to work a maximum of 20 hours per week. It is not expected that any exceptions will be made to this practice. However, if any exceptions are made and the graduate assistant works an average of 30 hours/week during the measurement period, health insurance coverage will be made available as appropriate. [Return to top] Measurement Period To determine if an employee is eligible, an initial 10 month look-back measurement period beginning January 1, 2014 will be used to determine the average hours an employee has worked. If an employee is determined to be eligible, they will have a 60 day enrollment period, with coverage becoming effective at the end of the 60 day enrollment period. After the initial measurement period of January to October 2014, a rolling 10 month measurement period will be used to determine eligibility. Below is an example for determining eligibility during the initial measurement period beginning January 2014. Example: A temporary employee begins working January 2, 2014. At the end of October 2014, it is determined that he has worked an average of 30 hours per week during the previous 10 months. The employee will be notified of eligibility and have 60 days to complete enrollment paperwork. If elected, coverage will be effective February 1, 2015. Stability Period The stability period is the period of time the insurance coverage is in effect, once determined eligible by the employer and elected by the employee. The stability period must be at least as long as the measurement period, or 10 months. As a result, once an employee is determined eligible and insurance is elected by the employee, employees will remain eligible until the employing institutions' Office of Human Resources is notified there has been a significant change in the employee's working hours that is expected to be in duration at least as long as the measurement period. Example: Reduction in FTE from 80% time to 50% time, or adjunct only teaching one semester. In circumstances where the employee no longer meets the eligibility criteria, once the stability period has been met, the institution may notify the employee coverage will end as of the end of the stability period. Institutions must be consistent in application of this procedure. In all cases, the employee must be actively employed to be eligible for continuation of coverage. Tiger Perks Exclusive discounts offered to UofM employees Affordable Care Act Important information related to the Affordable Care Act Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .