#http://www.memphis.edu/chucalissa/links.php
Links - Chucalissa - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. C.H. Nash Museum Chucalissa About Schedule &amp; Fees Events Directions Museum Store Home Chucalissa Links Sites to See Nearby Archaeological Site Museums Prehistoric Earthworks of the Mississippi Valley From Iowa to Louisiana along the course of the Mississippi River are over 15 prehistoric earthworks and their associated museums. This website is your guide to those monuments created by the prehistoric Native American inhabitants who lived along the misi-ziibi, or Great River, for thousands of years. Parkin Archaeological Site Parkin is located about 45 minutes west of Memphis and consists of a mound complex that dates to about the same time period as Chucalissa. Parkin also has an excellent museum and programs for the young and old alike. Wickliffe Mounds State Historic Site Wickliffe is located near Cairo Illinois, a three hour drive north of Memphis. Wickliffe is a also Mississippian culture site that dates to the same time period as Chucalissa and contains mounds, museum exhibits and interactive programs. Pinson Mounds State Archaeological Park Pinson is located in Jackson Tennessee about 90 minutes east of Memphis. The Pinson site dates Is one of the largest Middle Woodland period mound groups that was occupied from about AD 1 - 500. The site's initial occupation predates the Chucalissa site by about 1000 years. In addition to an archaeological museum, as a Tennessee State Park, Pinson offers hiking trails, camping and picnic facilities. Hampson Archaeological Museum The Hampson Museum is located about one hour north of Memphis in Wilson, Arkansas. The Museum exhibits a nationally renowned collection of ceramic vessels from the nearby Mississipian culture Nodena site. The Virtual Hampson Museum contains an extensive 3-D representation of the collections. Winterville Mounds Winterville, located on Highway 1 just north of Greenville Mississippi, is the location of a prehistoric ceremonial center occupied from about A.D. 1000 to 1450. During the height of the prehistoric occupation, Winterville contained at least 23 mounds that served as a center for public activities of the surrounding community. The mounds currently preserved at Winterville are some of the largest in the Southeast United States. A museum at the site exhibits the material culture of the prehistoric Native Americans who built the mounds and lived at the site. Native American Links Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians The Choctaw Indian Reservation comprising 35,000 acres of trust land scattered over 10 counties in east central Mississippi is home to nearly 10,000 members of Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians, descendants of the Choctaw who refused to be removed to Oklahoma in the 1830s. The tribal headquarters, industrial park, Pearl River Resort, the Choctaw Health Department/Center, and other main tribal services, are located in the Pearl River Community in Neshoba County, Mississippi. The website of the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma also contains important historical and cultural information about the Choctaw people. Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma The Chickasaw Nation's jurisdictional territory includes 7,648 square miles of south-central Oklahoma and encompasses all or parts of 13 Oklahoma counties. Today there are nearly 50,000 members of the Chickasaw Nation. In the 1830s the United States Government forced the Chickasaw people to leave their traditional homelands in what is now Mississippi, Kentucky, Alabama and Tennessee to their new homeland in south-central Oklahoma. With the spirits of their ancestors the Chickasaw Nation today is "Unconquered and Unconquerable." The Chickasaw Nation has five museums and historic buildings open to the public including a recently dedicated Chickasaw Culture Center in Sulphur, Oklahoma. Quapaw Tribe of Oklahoma - Located today in the northeast corner of Oklahoma, in the 1600s the Quapaw people lived in four villages in an area where the Arkansas River met the Mississippi River. In the 1800s the Quapaw were forced to relocate further west because of the expansion of European-Americans. Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA) "The Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act is a Federal law passed in 1990. NAGPRA provides a process for museums and Federal agencies to return certain Native American cultural items -- human remains, funerary objects, sacred objects, or objects of cultural patrimony -- to lineal descendants, and culturally affiliated Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations." Memphis Area Links Dixon Gallery and Gardens --An art Museum and Botanic Garden. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology --This site is dedicated to the study of art and culture in ancient Egypt. The institute, located at The University of Memphis regularly exhibits artifacts and conducts educational programming. Mud Island Park --A park and museum dedicated to the mighty Mississippi and her influences on life and culture in the south. The park is also home the WW II, B-17 bomber, "Memphis Belle." National Civil Rights Museum --Exhibits a comprehensive overview if the Civil Rights Movement. The site includes a virtual tour of the museum. Other Links of Interest Mississippi River Parkway Commission --A fantastic resource for activities, museums, parks, and more along the Mississippi River from Lake Itasca in Minnesota to New Orleans. Educational Resources Program offerings, Teacher and Group Leader packets, Activities, and more... Anoachi Newsletter An inside glimpse at Museum Operations Sites to See Nearby archaeological sites and museums Contact Us Want to volunteer or schedule a tour at Chucalissa? Have a question about our collections? Contact our main office... Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .