#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11476
Research Technican I Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Research Technican I Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE827 Advertised Title Research Technican I Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 019225 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department Biology Minimum Position Qualifications Associate’s degree in biology or a related field, and one year of experience performing research. Special Conditions This is a grant funded position contingent upon funding availability. Department is especially interested in candidates with experience in the following: - DNA / RNA extraction -Genotyping -Nucleic acid isolation -Polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ), RT- PCR , and real time quantitative PCR -Animal handling -Strong organizational skills -Attention to detail -Ability to multi-task Work Schedule Monday-Friday 8:00 a.m. &#8211; 4:30 p.m. May require work beyond normal work schedule. Posting Date 11/12/2015 Closing Date 11/30/2015 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range $14.36-$16.00 per hour Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit; use hands to handle, or feel; and talk or hear. The employee frequently is required to walk. The employee is occasionally required to stand; reach with hands and arms; and stoop, kneel, or crouch. The employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to 10 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision. Additional Working Conditions Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu. Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Performs real time quantitative Polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) several times per week. Skills must include the ability to extract RNA , prepare cDNA, design primers, perform real time PCR , analyze data, and plot results. Duties & Responsibilities Measures changes in protein expression through the extraction of proteins and preparation of samples, pouring and running acrylamide gels, and Western Blotting for desired proteins. Duties & Responsibilities Performs immunofluorescence through the fixation and permeabilization of cells, immunostaining with the desired antibodies, mounting of samples on slides, and imaging with fluorescent microscope. Duties & Responsibilities Responsible for genotyping mice through the extraction and purification of genomic DNA , followed by semi-quantitative PCR , and the entry of genotypes in an Excel database. Duties & Responsibilities Analyzes data and prepares figures using Adobe Photoshop and GraphPad Prism. Duties & Responsibilities Maintains laboratory upkeep by autoclaving, making solutions, and cleaning as appropriate. Duties & Responsibilities Minimum twice per week, responsible for maintaining multiple stable cell lines through sterile tissue culture. Duties & Responsibilities Other duties as assigned. Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Resume Cover Letter Optional Documents References List Unofficial Transcript