#http://www.memphis.edu/accountancy/faculty/cjlngstr.php
CRAIG LANGSTRAAT - ACCT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - School of Accountancy Welcome Programs Admissions Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Publications FCBE Faculty Welcome Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Admissions Getting Started Financial Assistance Application Form Networking &amp; Career Development Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Courses Offered Undergraduate Graduate Course Syllabi Publications Contact Us Home ACCT Faculty CRAIG LANGSTRAAT CRAIG LANGSTRAAT Professor, School of Accountancy Phone 901-678-4577 Email cjlngstr@memphis.edu Fax 901-678-2685 Office FCBE 240 Office Hours by appointment Website Biography Craig J. Langstraat received his LL.M (Taxation) (1982) from the University of San Diego, and his JD (1979) and BS (Accounting) (1972) from Arizona State University. He is a CPA ( Arizona) and a member of the California and Arizona Bars. Professor Langstraat practiced accounting with Touche Ross &amp; Co. and practiced law with Cook &amp; Newman, both in Phoenix, Arizona. He has been a member of the business fcbe_faculty at these universities: University of Southern California, University of Texas at El Paso, Texas Tech University, and Southern Methodist University. Professor Langstraat joined the fcbe_faculty of the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics at the University of Memphis in 1987. Teaching areas include: individual taxation, tax research, income taxation of trusts and estates, and estate &amp; gift taxation. Professor Langstraat is the advisor for all accounting Master’s students. Professor Langstraat has published over 60 articles in professional tax journals and law reviews including The Tax Executive, The ABA Journal , Trusts and Estates, Estate Planning, Taxation for Accountants, Corporate Taxation, St. John’s Law Review, and Santa Clara Law Review. He also has published the instructor’s manual for the Prentice Hall individual taxation textbook. His current research interests concern income taxation of trusts and estates and current problems in federal transfer taxation. Professor Langstraat is a member of the American Accounting Association, the American Taxation Association, and the Arizona Society of CPA’s. Research Representative Publications: “Deduction Offsets ‘Double Tax’ on Inherited Income,” Practical Tax Strategies (formerly Taxation for Accountants), August, 2001, Vol. 67 (2):86-91. Second Author: Amber M. Cagle. “Shareholder Loans to S Corporations: What Constitutes a Direct Loan,” Corporate Taxation, November/December 2001, Vol. 28 (6):24-30. First Author: John M. Malloy; Third Author: Amber M. Cagle. “Courts Split Over How to Deduct Trust Investment Advice Fees,” Practical Tax Strategies (formerly Taxation for Accountants), April, 2002, Vol. 68 (4):217-221. Second Author: Kendis J. Doss. “The Freedom of Information Act vs. The IRS Confidentiality Statute: The Battle Continues,” Oil, Gas &amp; Energy Quarterly, September, 2002, Vol. 51 (1):45-60. First Author: Kendis J. Doss. “Code Section 2036 Sends Crushing Blows to the Family Limited Partnership,” Oil, Gas &amp; Energy Quarterly, December, 2003, Vol. 52 (2):371-386. First Author: Jeffery S. Glatstein. "The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002: A New Ballgame for Accountants," The University of Memphis Law Review , Fall, 2003, Vol. 34 (1): 73-114. First Author: Stephen C. Gara. Instructor's Guide, Prentice Hall's Federal Taxation, 2004: Individuals, Editors: Pope/Anderson/Kramer. Current edition and all prior editions. Teaching Professor Langstraat primarily teaches ACCT 3510 ? Tax I (Individual Taxation) and ACCT 7514 ? Estate and Gift Taxation. Service Prior Administrative Service: Interim Associate Dean for Academic Programs (College), Accounting Area Coordinator, Interim Director of School of Accountancy University Service: fcbe_faculty Senate President, Co-chair SACS Committee on fcbe_faculty Qualifications, Chair Law School Dean Search Committee Faculty Welcome Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Admissions Getting Started Financial Assistance Application Form Networking &amp; Career Development Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Courses Offered Undergraduate Graduate Course Syllabi Publications Contact Us Networking &amp; Career Development Learn more about two important keys to career success! Financial Assistance Looking for financial assistance? Try looking here first! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .