#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/engr/enth.php
ENTH Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning ENTH Courses ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY (TECH) NOTE: Students taking Engineering courses will be charged an additional $25 per credit hour. TECH 6234 - Microproc Interface Technology (4) Analysis and design of microprocessor based systems utilizing serial and parallel input/output as well as analog to digital and digital to analog converters. Programs are developed to verify operation of the interfacing hardware. Team projects and written reports. Three lectures, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2831, 3233 and 3440. TECH 6242 - Client Application Technolgy (3) (CETH). Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), XML, and script languages. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4241, or permission of instructor. TECH 6262 - Modern Programming (3) (CETH). Application of Java and Java Script programming languages to problems from selected area of engineering technology; data collecting, modeling techniques, constraints, program development and validation. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2251 or equivalent. TECH 6263 - Server Application Technology (4) (CETH). Java exception handling, multithreading, files and streams; JDBC, Servlets, JSP, and JavaBeans server side software. Team projects include written reports. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3440, 4262, or permission of instructor. TECH 6272 - Operating Systems (4) Operating system structure, memory management (physical, virtual memory), process management (processes, threads, scheduling, synchronization, deadlocks), device management (driver, buffers, queues), file management (implementation, abstraction), installation and configuration of services within UNIX/LINUX operating system, and performance. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3232 or equivalent. TECH 6281 - Computer Network Technology (4) (CETH). Local area networks; covering the bottom four layers of the OSI mode; physical, datalink, network and transportation and application. Extensive laboratory coverage of the installation, configuration and administration of routers, switches and other networking devices. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 2822, 3232 and 3241 or equivalent. TECH 6381 - Principles of Supervision (3) (METH). Practical approach to supervisory management including functions of planning, organization, staffing, employee motivation; coverage of contemporary issues including legal aspect of supervision as well as other regulatory concerns, such as occupational safety, health and labor relations. TECH 6460 - Work Design/Improvement (3) (METH). Analytical techniques and concepts for work methods improvement, lean operation for production and distribution; performance measurement and evaluation; continuous improvement; fundamentals of human factors and ergonomics; work measurement using time study, predetermined time study systems, work sampling and development of standard data. TECH 6462 - Statistical Quality Control (3) (METH). Statistical methods for quality analysis and improvement; control charts for variables and attributes, industrial sampling; defect prevention using the Poka-Yoke System; reliability; acceptance sampling; Quality standards, continuous improvement; use of computer software for data analysis and presentation. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3044. [C] TECH 6464 - Production Control Systems (3) (METH). Functions of planning and controlling production and distribution operations; concepts of JIT, MRP, MRPII, ERP, and Japanese manufacturing techniques; analytical techniques and concepts for line balancing, production and process control, demand management and project management. COREQUISITE: TECH 4460, or permission of instructor. TECH 6466 - Facility Design (3) (METH). Integrated approach to design and layout for production and distribution facilities with respect to workstation design, material handling, project and resource planning, production control; use of Computer Aided Design, scheduling and analytical software. Team projects, written reports and oral presentations. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3440, 4460 and 4464, or permission of instructor. TECH 6472 - Computer Aided Drafting (3) (meth). Overview of CAD technology, hardware and software options; parametric solid modeling principles; applications to produce computer generated models, assemblies, photo-realistic renderings and working drawings. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1521, 1711, 3401. TECH 6474 - Automation and Robotics (3) (METH). Concepts of automation applied to production, distribution, and industrial robotics. Team project including written report. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 1811, 3440 and PHYS 2010. TECH 6476 - Computer Aided Manufacturing (3) (METH). Computer numerical control programming by manual data input and distributed numerical control by computer assistance; system assessment of CNC machines; components, controls, and tooling for integrated manufacturing environment. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1730, TECH 1711, 3421, and 4472 . TECH 6571 - Tool Design (3) (METH). Design of tooling and work holding systems for the integrated manufacturing environment; geometric dimensioning and tolerancing, fast change-over techniques, hydraulic and pneumatic circuits, achieving world class quality through design. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3401, 3421, 4472. TECH 6821 - Microwave Technology (4) (EETH). Transition line principles for coax, waveguide and fiber; use of Smith Charts for impedance matching; principles of microwave generation and propagation; measurements such as impedance, antenna gain and VSWR; antenna types, characteristics; radiation patterns. Three lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3811, PHYS 2020. TECH 6823 - Adv Programmable Logic Control (3) (EETH). Advanced applications of programmable logic controllers, including analog I/O techniques and computer interfacing. Team project including written report. Two lecture hours, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: TECH 3440, 3822, or permission of instructor. TECH 7015 - App Stat Meth Industry (3) Application of statistical concepts to production processes and data gathering in industry including frequency, distribution, location and dispersion, probability dispersions, confidence limits, significance tests, and industrial sampling. TECH 7020 - Techn Research Writing (3) Investigations into the development and writing of technical research, emphasizing literature review in technology, review of technical specification format, proposal writing, and preparation of technical paper for international conferances. Written and oral presentations will be stressed in the course. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7105 - Project Plan & Scheduling (3) Contemporary methods used in project planning and scheduling; emphasis on critical path method (CPM) with computer application; solution of actual problems stressed. TECH 7233 - Adv Software Appl (3) Use of compilers, assemblers, program translators, application generators, program generators; application software for computer-aided design and data communications. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7263 - Adv Dgitl Circuit/Appl (3) Pragmatic treatment of analysis, synthesis, and applications of digital integrated circuits and systems. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7273 - Adv Microproc Arch (3) Structure of the microprocessor, Bit-slice and monolithic systems; ALU design, data transfer and storage registers, and control unit logic; microprogramming techniques. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7283 - Adv Data Acquisition (3) Use of digital and analog circuits to accomplish the computer analysis of empirical data; transducers, digital and analog conversions, linear and operational amplifiers, interfacing techniques; data scaling and manipulation. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7401 - Lean Fundamentals (3) Basic concepts and terminology of Lean, including review of published seminal works and case studies. Concepts covered include: kanban, visual factory & 5S, kaizen, standard work, takt time, flow, poke-yoke, PDCA, SMED and other tools & techniques of Lean. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4/6460 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. TECH 7402 - Adv Quality Control (3) Methods for improved process and product design; cost of quality, measurement systems analysis, process capability, design of experiments and analysis, continuous improvement and review of quality standards. PREREQUISITE: TECH 4/6462 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. TECH 7404 - Wrld/Clas Manfct Concpt (3) World-class manufacturing and Lean concepts including Value Stream Mapping, Training Within Industry (TWI), Standard Work, 5S tools, Ergonomics, Human factors and Cellular Manufacturing. COREQUISITE: TECH 7401 TECH 7406 - Material Handling/Auto (3) Analysis, design, and evaluation of traditional and contemporary approaches to materials handling; analytical and computer procedures for designing handling systems. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7408 - Production Processes (3) A coordinated study of manufacturing processes and equipment, operation sequence planning, economic aspects of equipment selection, tooling and processing a product from product design to final assembly for quantity production. TECH 7414 - Manuf Strat/Syst Design (3) Manufacturing strategy and systems design, including concepts of value stream mapping, theory of contraints, lean and six sigma (TLS) combined use, implementing and sustaining change and overcoming resistance, executive alignment and strategy. COREREQUISITE: TECH 7401. TECH 7801 - Advanced Instrumentation (3) Review of basic analog and digital instruments, applications of advanced communication equipment, such as digital spectrum analyzer, TDR, computer aided measurement, and industrial instruments. Course concludes with virtual instrumentation. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7811 - Tech Elect Comm System (3) Technical and economic aspects in the implementation and operation of publicly and privately owned analog and digital communication systems, wired and wireless communications, and comparison of different methods of signal transmission. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7821 - Adv Microwave Tech (3) Microwave theory and instrument applications, including techniques for measuring power, frequency, impedance, VSWR, reflection coefficient, use of Smith chart, steady state and transient response of transmission lines, high frequency generators, and computer aided design and analysis of array antennas. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7822 - Ind Press Control Syst (3) Simulation and pragmatic analysis of closed loop industrial control systems using programmable logic controllers; practical considerations of control loop quality and stability; applications of digital computer for direct and supervisory control and on-line analysis. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7831 - Adv Int Circuits Tech (3) Theory and applications of integrated circuits and systems, emphasizing linear integrated circuits; characteristics, power requirements, and applications to amplifiers, oscillators, demodulators, wave shaping circuits, active filters, converters, and troubleshooting techniques. Two lecture, three laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7841 - Fiber Optics in Comm (3) Implementation and analysis of fiber optics; comparison of coax and fiber, bandwidth and rate of data transmission using fiber; emphasis on single and multimode fiber. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. TECH 7991 - Projects I (1-3) Independent investigation of a problem selected in consultation with instructor; report required. PREREQUISITE: Written proposal and permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. TECH 7992 - Projects II (1-3) Independent investigation of a problem selected in consultation with instructor; report required. PREREQUISITE: Written proposal and permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. TECH 7993 - Internship In Engr Tech (1-3) Practical experience in engineering technology; students are placed with governmental or private organizations; project must be approved and supervised by department faculty; academic credit granted on certification of cooperating agency and acceptance by the supervising faculty of written report. NOTE: May be repeated for total of 6 semester hours credit, but no more than 3 credit hours may be applied as an elective. Number of credit hours to enroll depends on number of hours worked per week: 10-15 hours=1 credit hour; 16-30 hours=2 credit hours; 31-40 hours=3 credit hours. Work done as an intern can not be used to fulfill project requirements in TECH 7991 or TECH 7992. PREREQUISITE: Written proposal, offer letter from the internship organization, and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. TECH 7994 - Seminar (1) Presentations by faculty, members of local industry, and graduate students. May be repeated for up to 6 hours credit. Must be taken at least 3 times to count as an elective in the master's program. Not more than 3 credit hours may be applied as an elective. PREREQUISITE: Written proposal and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. TECH 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Writing of the thesis with emphasis on adequate setup of the problem, collection of data, their use, and conclusions. Students must present in writing a proposal acceptable to the graduate committee under whose direction the thesis is to be written. PREREQUISITE: Written proposal and permission of instructor. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .