#http://bf.memphis.edu/tigermaps/
U of M | TigerMaps Search U of M U of M People Arts & Entertainment Bookstore Main Campus Map Park Avenue Campus Map Main Campus Aerial Photo Park Avenue Campus Aerial Photo Computer Labs Dining Locations Emergency Phones Handicap Entrances Health Services Housing Libraries Parking Places of Interest Off Campus Places of Interest On Campus Police Services Vehicular Access Vending Machines Visitor Walking Trails You do not have the Flash plugin installed, or your browser does not support Javascript. Please update your Flash Player. You must have version 6.0 or higher to view the flash content. Get where you need to go with TigerMaps! Welcome to The University of Memphis! Since its opening in 1912, the University has been an integral part of the Memphis and Mid-South area. It has also grown quite a bit. TigerMaps was created to help students, visitors, new faculty anyone who is not familiar with the campus - find their way around. From this site you can access any number of PDF maps that show you not only where a building is, but what it looks like and what is in the building. For example, if you are trying to find your Chemistry class in Smith Hall, room SM100, select the Main Campus map. Find the building abbreviation SM and click on it. A red star will appear next to the appropriate building. If you would like more information about this building, click on the building to bring up a photo of Smith Hall as well as other key departmental information about this building. You could have just asked someone where Smith Hall is, right? Yes, but the problem is that there are two Smith Halls the other is a dormitory. TigerMaps will get you to the right place. TigerMaps also hosts maps of various places in the City of Memphis and Shelby County that may be of interest, including the FedEx Forum, Liberty Bowl Stadium, Millington Center, and Chucalissa. Please let us know if you have any comments or ideas about how the site can be improved. Viewing the maps requires Adobe Acrobat Reader . Comments &amp; Suggestions | Important Notice | U of M Home Site maintained by Business &amp; Finance Support Services Last update: 08/24/2010