#http://www.memphis.edu/tnstc/
TNSTC - TNSTC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cluster to Advance cyber Security &amp; Testing Contact Us Events Home TNSTC The Cluster to Advance cyber Security &amp; Testing (CAST) is a collaborative effort leading research, education, and technology transfer at the FedEx Institute of Technology. CAST comprises a consortium of experts in cyber-security and systems testing to provide proactive leadership and cohesion to the region's responses to this constantly shifting challenge. Private corporations based in Tennessee and state government agencies join together to tackle public policy and find cutting-edge technical solutions to protect their information and technology against cyber attacks. With threats growing more sophisticated all the time, there is extraordinary pressure to "secure and deter." Our national strengths in information assurance and software testing put the UofM on the forefront of the cyber war. CAST is led by the University's Center For Information Assurance, which is designated by NSA and DHS as a National Center for Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education and Research, and the Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP), which is the largest university research and training center in the field. Together we help the Department of Defense and national corporations with software testing education and research. Click here for Current CAST Research Projects The Cluster pulls together innovative partners and collaborators from a wide range of backgrounds and disciplines, an important factor given the enormous breadth and depth of cyber security and testing challenges that exist in corporate enterprises, government units and across the Internet-connected world. With our groundbreaking work through CAST, the University will strengthen its reputation as a thought leader in the science of cyber security and testing and industry best practices. CAST is a key interdisciplinary initiative of the FedEx Institute of Technology, engaging industry, academic and government partners to shape the future of cyber security and testing in the following ways: Research - On cyber security and testing excellence (rigorous scholarly examination of challenging industry problems). Educational Training Certification Programs and Educational Curricula - A world- class cyber security and testing training and education center. Collaborative International Workshop - An international forum of workshops and colloquia on the biggest cyber security problems. A hub for knowledge exchange on cyber security and testing. Technology Transfer - Utilizing the University's Office of Technology Transfer, we are paving the way for breakthrough innovations and revolutionary security technologies to become commercial products, benefiting the region, state of Tennessee, and our nation. CAST works on various certification, research and curricular projects that open new avenues for leading-edge security, testing and ideation. CAST is a valuable state and national resource, providing the educational and outreach activities that foster next-generation workforce development. Our Interdisciplinary Research Team Mohd Hasan Ali Asst. Professor Dept. of CCE mhali@memphis.edu Expertise: Cyber security Applications for Electric Power and Energy Systems Mehdi Amini, PhD Professor, Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management George Johnson Research Fellow Affiliate Professor, Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden Director, enterprise Simulation and Optimization Lab (eSOL) Associate Director, FedEx Center for Supply Chain Management mamini@memphis.edu Expertise: Supply Chain Issues and Optimization for Cyber Security Bonny Banerjee, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Institute for Intelligent Systems, and Dept. of Electrical &amp; Computer Engineering bbnerjee@memphis.edu Expertise: Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Cognitive Sci/Neuro-sci, abnormality detection, Security Kevin Berisso, Ph.D. Dept. of Engineering Technology kberisso@memphis.edu Expertise: RFID, Internet of things, end user technologies, SCADA/Industrial control Ruby Booth Ph.D. Student Department of Management Information Systems Fogelman College of Business and Economics rbooth@memphis.edu Expertise: risk factor for attack, social engineering, cyber security, social engineering James T. Campbell Dept. of Mathematical Sciences jcampbll@memphis.edu Expertise: dynamical systems/networks/chaos Su Chen Assistant Professor of Statistics, Ph.D. Department of Mathematical Sciences schen4@memphis.edu Expertise: Applied Statistics, statistical learning, nonparametric statistics, biostatistics Dr. Dipankar Dasgupta Professor Center for Information Assurance ddasgupt@memphis.edu Expertise: Cyber Security Jasbir Dhaliwal, PhD., Professor of Information Systems Interim Vice Provost of Academic Affairs &amp; Dean of Graduate School Director, Systems Testing Excellence Program, FedEx Institute of Technology Executive Director, FedEx Institute of Technology jdhaliwl@memphis.edu Expertise: Cyber Security &amp; Testing Sean Ellis Associate Director Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute scellis1@memphis.edu Expertise: Administration, event planning, marketing and communication Mark L. Gillenson, PhD, CCP Professor of Management Information Systems Associate Director, STEP Fogelman College of Business and Economics Counseling, Educational Psychology &amp; Research mgillnsn@memphis.edu Expertise: Testing cryptography security Eric Goddard Project Coordinator Center for Earth Science and Engineering Research egoddard@memphis.edu Expertise: Geographic Information Systems, spatial data, geofencing Mihalis Golias Department of Civil Engineering mgkolias@memphis.edu Expertise: Transportation eng., Optimization, Game Network vulnerability/resilience Mohd Hasan Assistant Professor EECE mhali@memphis.edu Expertise: Cyber Security application to power and energy systems Benwari Kedia Professor Wang Center for International Business College of Business Economics bkedia@memphis.edu Expertise: Global challenges of cyber security Daniel Kohn Engineering Technology dekohn@memphis.edu Expertise: Internet of things security, Industrial Control Security, Networking Ed Koshland Research Computing koshland@memphis.edu Expertise: HPC support for research needing such resources Robert Kozma, PhD, Fellow IEEE, Fellow INNS First Tennessee University Professor, Director CLION Center for Large-Scale Intelligent Optimization and Networks Department of Mathematical Sciences Professor rkozma@memphis.edu Expertise: anomaly detection, optimization, evolving networks, crisis response Zhuo Lu, Ph.D. Assistant Professor zhuo.lu@memphis.edu Expertise: cyber and network security, proactive defense, information forensics, data analytics, cyber-physical systems, wireless and mobile systems. Sabyasachee Mishra Civil Engineering srmishra3@memphis.edu Expertise: Transportation engineering, connectivity, traffic flow, econometrics, applied statistics, cyber and security Andrew J. Neel Computer Science aneel@memphis.edu Expertise: Security Metrics, governance Robin Poston Papasan Family Professorship for Exemplary Leadership Associate Professor and Interim Dept Chair for Business Information &amp; Technology, formerly MIS Director of the Systems Testing Excellence Program rposton@memphis.edu Expertise: Cyber Security &amp; Testing Al Ramirez, Ph.D. Mngr. Engr Comp Sys Adjunct Professor, EECE Engineering College ajramirz@memphis.edu Expertise: Threat detection, risk evaluation testing and live intrusion detection Ameya Sanzgiri Research Assistant/Professor Center for Information Assurance msnzgiri@memphis.edu Expertise: Cyber Security and portable devices security Rodrigo Silva-Lugo Computer Science Expertise: Machine Learning, Optimization, Software testing, Industry collaboration, Formal Methods Judy Simon Management Information Systems jsimon@memphis.edu Expertise: Cyber Security management, e.g., compliance, social media privacy, insider threats, governance, etc. Lan Wang Associate Professor Computer Science lanwang@memphis.edu Expertise: Network security, future internet architecture, network measurement and analysis Sandi Richardson Assistant Professor Management Information Systems srchrdsn@memphis.edu Expertise: Behavioral and policy cyber security issues, cyber security management, strategy, healthcare cyber security issues Chia-chen Yang, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Educational Psychology Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research cyang2@memphis.edu Expertise: Human aspects of technology use and why or why not people approach technology in a certain way, cyberbullying, cyber (cyberpsychology) Center for Information Assurance (CfIA) Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP) Funding Opportunities Driven By Doing The National Security Agency is funding Dipankar Dasgupta's new cyber security research project. Read More Dipankar Dasgupta Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .