#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/anth.php
Anthropology - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Anthropology Anthropology RUTHBETH FINERMAN, PhD Chair Room 316, Manning Hall 901.678.2080 KERI BRONDO, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies kbrondo@memphis.edu I. The Department of Anthropology offers a Master of Arts degree in Anthropology with the purpose of training students as competent practicing anthropologists. Concentrations are available in either Medical Anthropology or Globalization, Development, and Culture. The concentration in Medical Anthropology involves the application of theories and methods in medical anthropology to better understand and address health disparities, health risks, and healthcare systems. The concentration in Globalization, Development, and Culture includes three focus areas: a) Community Development: the application of theories and methods in the anthropology of development in order to understand socio-economic inequalities and strategies of community building through engagement in community-based projects in local, national and international settings; b) Cultural Heritage and Identity: the application of theories and methods in cultural anthropology, applied archaeology, and museum studies to better understand the role of cultural heritage as a source for community engagement, empowerment, development, and sustainability; and c) Environmental Justice and Sustainability: the application of theories and methods in environmental anthropology to better understand local and global environmental problems and to build models for cultural and ecological sustainability and environmental justice. Each student will plan his or her program in consultation with his or her major advisor. Program objectives are: (1) competence in the holistic theoretical and methodological foundations of anthropology; (2) enhanced and applied critical analysis and independent thought; (3) practical experience in applying learned anthropological knowledge and methodology, and ethical principles; (4) enhanced written and oral communication skills; (5) implementation of professional training and career opportunities in Anthropology through graduate study and participation in professional activities. Students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MA Degree Program A. Program Admission Admission to both the Graduate School and the department is required. To meet departmental requirements for admission, students must submit a letter of intent, three letters of recommendation, and complete the GRE. All applicants are encouraged to submit a writing sample and those applying for a Graduate Assistantship are required to submit a writing sample. In addition to their undergraduate academic record, applicants will be considered on the basis of their GRE scores, recommendation letters, work experience and career plans as described in the letter of intent. Except in exceptional circumstances, students should have a 3.0 undergraduate record. Admission to the program is not automatic upon meeting minimum departmental admission requirements. Students are selected from the pool of qualified applicants and the number selected depends on the availability of financial aid and adequate faculty supervision. NOTE: Deadline for completion of submission is January 31 for the following fall semester and November 13 for the following spring semester. Summer school admission must be completed by May 1 for entrance into the Graduate School and the departmental program. Late submissions may, in exceptional circumstances, be considered on an individual basis, but will normally be deferred to the following semester. B. Program Requirements A total of 30 semester hours course-work plus satisfactory performance in a practicum (Anthropology 7985—6 hours credit) and a practicum proseminar (Anthropology 7984-1 hour credit) for a total of 36 semester hours. Satisfactory completion of the core curriculum (14 hours). Satisfactory completion of concentration-specific requirements (6 hours). Medical Anthropology ANTH 6511 Medical Anthropology ANTH 7511 Medical Anthropology Theory and Practice Globalization, Development and Culture ANTH 7400 Globalization, Development, and Culture And one course (3 hours) from one of the three focus areas, determined in consultation with faculty advisor: Community Development: ANTH 6051, 6120, 6253, 6412, 6415, or 7411 Cultural Heritage and Identity: ANTH 6414, 6660, 6661, 6680, 7661, or 7662 Environmental Justice and Sustainability: ANTH 6111, 6220, 6414, 6431, or 6510 At least 70% of the program (i.e. 26 hours) must be taken at the 7000 level. Satisfactory performance on a comprehensive exam. The Master’s Degree in Anthropology is an interdisciplinary degree and students are encouraged to take up to 9 semester hours of their work outside of the Department of Anthropology, depending upon their area of interest and the nature of previous work experience. III. Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies (administered jointly by the Departments of Anthropology and Art) A. Program Admission Students currently admitted to a graduate program at the U of M or another university or students holding a graduate degree may apply for admission. For students enrolled in a graduate program, a minimum GPA of 3.0 is required for admission. In rare instances, a student who has completed an undergraduate degree program but who has not completed a graduate degree nor been admitted to a graduate program may apply and will be considered on an individual basis. All students not currently admitted to a graduate degree program at the U of M must also apply to the Graduate School for admission as a non-degree student. In order to continue in the program, students must maintain at least a 3.0 GPA. To apply, students submit: transcript of undergraduate degree program and transcripts of prior and current graduate study; three letters of recommendation; and a letter describing reasons for wishing to take a graduate certificate in the area of museum studies and how the program corresponds with prior experience and anticipated career plans. Inquiries can be directed to Dr. Leslie Luebbers, Director of the Art Museum ( lluebbrs@memphis.edu) , or Dr. Linda Bennett, Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences ( lbennett@memphis.edu ). B. Program Requirements A minimum of 18 credit hours is required. Six of the 18 hours will be met by completion of two core courses: ANTH/ARTH 7661 Museum Practices and ANTH/ARTH 7662 Museums and Committees. Six elective hours will be selected in consultation with the Admissions and Advisory Committee. Except for unique circumstances, students in the Anthropology and Art History graduate programs must take at least three elective hours outside their major department. Two three-hour internships (ANTH/ARTH 7669 Museum Internship) are required. Each internship site will be chosen in consultation with the Admissions and Advisory Committee. For those students working in a museum or other appropriate community site, three of the internship hours may be replaced by a third elective course. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .