#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11467
Program Coordinator Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Program Coordinator Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE826 Advertised Title Program Coordinator Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 018680 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department Fedex Institute of Technology Minimum Position Qualifications Bachelor’s degree in relevant area and three years of appropriate experience. An equivalent combination of education,training and experience may be substituted for the degree requirement. Special Conditions The department is especially interested in candidates with excellent organizational and interpersonal skills. Work Schedule Monday-Friday 8:00am-4:30pm Extended hours during special projects. Posting Date 11/10/2015 Closing Date 11/23/2015 Open Until Filled Hiring Range up to $46,000 per year Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit; use hands to handle, or feel; and talk or hear. The employee frequently is required to walk. The employee is occasionally required to stand; reach with hands and arms; and stoop, kneel, or crouch. The employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to 10 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision. Additional Working Conditions Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu. Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Advises staff on financial, technical and operational matters, instructs and orients new members of staff, faculty or administration. Duties & Responsibilities Establishes and/or reviews internal processes and procedures and ensures compliance with University and other governing agency policies and procedures. Duties & Responsibilities Manages operating budgets, department accounts, revenue accounts, grant accounts; monitors and maintains all accounts, facilitates receipt and/or transfer of monies from internal and external funding sources. Duties & Responsibilities May coordinate and advise on personnel matters, such as preparing personnel forms for payroll, classification, recruiting, and new hire actions, interviewing and selecting new staff, employee grievances, and ensuring compliance with applicable policies. Duties & Responsibilities May manage the full production of publications and communication materials including research, writing copy, editing, and layout and design as well as promoting the programs of the assigned area through news releases, fact and profile sheets, flyers, ads, etc. Duties & Responsibilities Monitors and reviews work product of staff to ensure that deadlines and quality standards are met. Duties & Responsibilities Oversees operational and administrative activities for assigned area and all related programs; may be required to function independently during management absences. Duties & Responsibilities Performs in-depth research; compiles, organizes, and analyzes information and prepares comprehensive reports. Duties & Responsibilities Prepares budget by forecasting unit’s operating requirements, monitoring expenses, preparing forms and documentation for expenditures, and preparing any necessary related reports. Duties & Responsibilities Responds to inquiries for complex information from inside and outside the unit; conducts research as necessary, and composes appropriate responses. Duties & Responsibilities Responsible for all of assigned unit’s financial activities; resolves account discrepancies, monitors finances, reviews and approves major requests, travel, and other budget-related issues; coordinates office operations. Duties & Responsibilities Schedules and organizes meetings and other events by making any reservation/rental/audio-visual/catering arrangements and preparing agendas. Duties & Responsibilities Serves as informational resource to internal and external customers; provides advice and counsel; assists staff, faculty, and students with complex inquiries, problems, or projects that require independent judgment and interpretation of policies and procedures. Duties & Responsibilities Ensures compliance with all university policies and regulations by regularly reviewing policy to make certain they are in sync with business practices. Advises supervisor or inconsistencies and takes steps to realign practices. Duties & Responsibilities Maintains website content and coordinates design updates. Duties & Responsibilities Other duties as assigned. Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). * Describe your administrative and coordinating work experience. (Open Ended Question) Applicant Documents Required Documents Resume Cover Letter Optional Documents References List Unofficial Transcript