#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies/12a1104.html
Equal Opportunity Association THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS POLICY MANUAL SUBJECT: Equal Opportunity Association POLICY NO.: 1:2A:11:04 DATE: June 1, 1991 SUPERSEDES POLICY NO.: 1:2A:11:04 DATED: April 28, 1986 I. INTRODUCTION It is the intent of The University of Memphis to fully comply with Tennessee State Resolution No. 34 adopted March 5, 1986 and the Tennessee Civil Rights Act of 1990. In so doing, the University affirms its stand against any form of sex, race, creed, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, handicap or veteran status discrimination. II. STATEMENT OF POLICY The University of Memphis requires all employees, agents, and subcontractors to conduct themselves in a manner consistent with the public policy in Tennessee that prohibits the use of facilities for any official function which are not accessible to all citizens of Tennessee. The University of Memphis shall not sponsor and/or organize a meeting or other activity; expend state funds in connection with a meeting or other activity held at an establishment or facility; or reimburse dues or other expenses incurred at an establishment or facility which does not afford full membership rights and privileges to all persons because of sex, race, creed, color, reli- gion, ancestry, national origin or disability. The University of Memphis shall not enter into a commercial agreement on behalf of the State with a club which denies to a person entry, use of facilities or membership or unreasonably prevents the full enjoyment of such club on the basis of sex, race, creed, color, religion, ancestry, national origin or disability. The University of Memphis and all adjunct organizations, including but not limited to booster groups, shall not enter into a contract on behalf of, or purchase membership for, an employee of the University to a club which denies a person entry, use of facilities or membership, or unreasonably prevents the full enjoyment of such club on the basis of sex, race, creed, color, religion, ancestry, national origin or disability. The Civil Rights Act of 1990 shall not be construed to prohibit a religious organization or any organization operating solely for religious, charitable, educational or social welfare purposes, from restricting membership of facilities to persons of the same religious faith, where necessary to promote the religious principles under which it was established and is currently main- tained. This exemption shall apply only to organizations whose primary purpose is to serve members of a particular religion.