#http://www.memphis.edu/law/faculty-staff/faculty-news.php
Faculty News - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Home School of Law Faculty Faculty News FACULTY NEWS 2015 Professor Christina Zawisza was recently recognized by Florida's Children First, a statewide advocacy organization that she helped to create, as Director Emeritus, with the following statement: "For realizing that Florida's children in care have similar systemic problems across the state, Having the foresight to bring together passionate child advocates to lay the groundwork in creating the leading nonprofit child advocacy organization in the state of Florida, And for tirelessly working to improve child-caring systems, serving for over a decade as a motivating force for all who follow." Professor Kate Schaffzin was elected as treasurer of the American Association of Law Schools (AALS) Section on Litigation. Professor Kate Schaffzin's article, entitled "Beyond Bobby Jo Clary: The Unavailability of Same-Sex Marital Privileges Infringes the Rights of So Many More than Criminal Defendants," was published in the University of Kansas Law Review. Professor Daniel Schaffzin's essay, "So Why Not An Experiential Law School ... Starting With Reflection In The First Year," was published in volume 7 of The Elon Law Review. Professor Schaffzin served on the Planning Committee for the Southern Clinical Conference at William &amp; Mary Law School. At the conference he co-presented a concurrent session entitled "Is Subjective Assessment an Indispensable Cornerstone of Clinical Legal Education? Exploring the Role that Subjectivity Should Play in the Evaluation of Law Clinic Students." Professor Steve Mulroy was recently published in the Willamette Law Review, the article is entitled "Sunshine's Shadow: Overbroad Open Meetings Laws as Content-Based Speech Restrictions Distinct From Disclosure Requirements." Professor Mulroy presented a paper in March at the Sorbonne in Paris, as part of the International Symposium on Freedom of Information &amp; Governmental Transparency in the Open Government Era, University of Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne. His paper, "Sunshine's Chill: Overbroad American Open Meetings Laws and the Limits of Disclosure," which takes a comparative approach, will be published in the book produced as part of the symposium. Professor Andrew McClurg's article, "In Search of the Golden Mean in the Gun Debate," will be published in volume 58 of the Howard Law Journal as part of a symposium, "Rights vs. Control: America's Perennial Debate on Guns." Professor Ernest Lidge's article, "The Necessity of Expanding Protection from Retaliation for Employees Who Complain about Hostile Environment Harassment," was published in the Louisville Law Review. Professor Lidge also served as a presenter on a panel at the ABA Practice and Procedure Under the National Labor Relations Act Committee Meeting, Region VIII. The panel topic was "NLRB Rulemaking: Proposed Amendments to Election Procedures." Professor Lidge was also a presenter at the Association of Administrative Law Judges Annual Conference, where he spoke on the topic, "Legal Ethics for Administrative Law Judges." Professor Christina Zawisza was a presenter at the Association of Administrative Law Judges Annual Conference, where she spoke the topic, "Children in the Courtroom." Professor Barbara Kritchevsky gave a presentation entitled "Moot Court Judging: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly," at the Moot Court Conference held at Marquette Law School. She was also a panelist at the same Moot Court Conference, serving on a panel entitled "Teaching Brief-Writing: Some Successful Approaches." Professor Daniel Kiel recently had a chapter published in a book entitled "Law &amp; Educational Inequality: Removing Barriers to Educational Opportunities." His chapter, "Equity Through Differentiation," examines the foundation and merits of the claim that equity can be achieved by providing more individualized educational opportunities by granting greater autonomy to individual school leaders. Professor D.R. Jones was invited to be a speaker on copyright law at the Wake Forest School of Law Intellectual Property in the Digital Age Symposium. The symposium was in February 2015. Professor Jones discussed fair use issues and issues concerning the resale of digital works. Professor Jones' article entitled "Law Firm Copying: An Examination of Different Purpose and Fair Use Markets" will be published in the winter issue of the South Texas Law Review. In February 2015, Professor Jones presented a paper topic, "Libraries, Contracts and Copyright" at the 2015 Works-in-Progress Intellectual Property Colloquium (WIPIP) held in Alexandria, Va., at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Professor Donna Harkness's article, entitled "Bridging the Uncompensated Caregiver Gap: Does Technology Provide an Ethically and Legally Viable Answer," was published in the spring 2015 edition of The Elder Law Journal. Professor Amy Campbell published a chapter in the Handbook of Community Sentiment. Her chapter was entitled "Is There a Therapeutic Way to Balance Community Sentiment, Student Mental Health, and Student Safety to Address Campus-Related Violence?" Professor Campbell also made a presentation, entitled "Embedding a Longitudinal Experience in Public Health Law/Policy in the Academy &amp; Community," at the APHA 2014 annual meeting in New Orleans, Louisiana. Professor Ralph Brashier's article, "Conservatorships, Capacity, and Crystal Balls," was the lead article in the first issue of volume 87 of the Temple Law Review (fall 2014). The second edition of Professor Brashier's book, "Mastering Elder Law," was published by Carolina Academic Press in January 2015. In February 2015, Professor Brashier and Shelby County Probate Judge Kathleen Gomes headed a legal-musical presentation on elder financial abuse, entitled "Probate: How to Catch a Thief," before the Leo Bearman Sr. American Inns of Court. Professor Jeremy Bock attended the second annual Roundtable on Empirical Methods in Intellectual Property at IIT Chicago-Kent College of Law. He was also a panelist at the Leo Bearman Sr. American Inn of Court program, "A Case For and Against Patent Reform." Professor Jeremy Bock published an article in the University of Richmond Law Review, entitled "Does the Presumption of Validity Matter? An Experimental Assessment." Citing our own Professor Katherine Schaffzin prominently, the Supreme Court of New Jersey, in the case O'Boyle v. Borough of Longport, broadly adopted the common interest doctrine. Click here to read more about the case. Summer/Fall 2014 Professor Andrew McClurg's book, The "Companion Text to Law School: Understanding and Surviving Life with a Law Student has been named one of Amazon Editors' Favorite Books of the Year. Professor Steve Mulroy has been a recently featured speaker at a number of events in Fall 2014, such as: A panel discussion on Tennessee Amendment 2 (judicial selection), Memphis Law SBA sponsored event—October 2014. A presentation on his amicus curiae participation in Van Tran v. Colson (6th Cir. 2014) and his Vermont Law Review article on mental retardation and the death penalty—Sponsored by the Memphis Law Mental Health Law Society. A debate against Prof. John Stinneford, Univ. Florida School of Law, on Eighth Amendment—sponsored by Federalist Society—November 2014. A panel discussion on Amendment 1 (abortion), a Memphis Law SBA/ACS sponsored event—November 2014. Moderated panel discussion between Prof. Michael Helfand of Pepperdine School of Law and Prof. Steven Green of Willamette School of Law re: the Hobby Lobby Supreme Court decision and religious freedom—sponsored by the law school—November 2014. Professor Lynda Black's article "The Birth of a Parent: Defining Parentage for Lenders of Genetic Material" was published in the Nebraska Law Review June 2014 edition. She also spoke at the Athens Institute for Education and Research (ATINER) Law Research Conference hosted in Athens, Greece, with a presentation on how the practices of assisted reproductive technology and surrogacy leave open many questions regarding legal parentage, particularly when couples engage in these practices abroad and then return to their home country with the child. Professor Black was also a workshop discussant at the 2014 Annual Conference of the Southeastern Association of Law Schools, where she spoke on the topic of "Innovations in Trusts and Estates." Professor Jeremy Bock's article "Restructuring the Federal Circuit" was published in the NYU Journal of Intellectual Property and Entertainment Law. His article "Neutral Litigants in Patent Cases" was published in the North Carolina Journal of Law &amp; Technology in 2014. Professor Donna Harkness participated in the 21st Belle R. &amp; Joseph H. Braun Memorial Symposium/2014 International Elder Law and Policy Conference, jointly sponsored by John Marshall Law School, Roosevelt University and East China University of Political Science and Law, held in Chicago during July. Professor Harkness presented remarks as part of the Panel 2 discussion – "Health Care, Caregiving for Older Persons, and Legal Decision Making." Professor Harkness' recently published article "What Are Families For? Re-evaluating Return to Filial Responsibility Laws" was also featured in Professor Katherine Pearson's (Penn State Dickinson Law) March 18, 2014, post to the Elder Law Prof Blog. Professor Jones presented a paper on "Law Firm Copying and Fair Use" at the Works in Progress Intellectual Property (WIPIP) Colloquium held at Santa Clara University School of Law, Santa Clara, Calif., in February and at the 15th Annual Intellectual Property Scholars' Conference held at UC Berkeley, Berkeley, Calif., in August. Professor Jones was the moderator and a speaker for the program "Emerging Issues in Copyright: What You Need to Know" at the American Association of Law Libraries Annual Meeting in July 2014. Professor Daniel Kiel made two presentations at the Education &amp; Civil Rights Conference at Penn State School of Law in June 2014. One paper offered the merger and demerger of school districts in Shelby County as a case study of contemporary educational reform, while the other made a broad structural critique of the American education system as one of inherent inequality. Professor Kiel also served on the scholar review committee for the renovations to the National Civil Rights Museum, which reopened in April. He consulted on the completely reconfigured exhibition on Brown v. Board of Education and contributed footage that is now featured in the museum. Professor Boris Mamlyuk published an article titled "Regionalizing Multilateralism: The Effect of Russia's Accession to the WTO on Existing Regional Integration Schemes in the Former Soviet Space" in the UCLA Journal of International Law &amp; Foreign Affairs. Florida State University Law Review published Professor Mulroy's article "Raising The Floor Of Company Conduct: Deriving Public Policy From The Constitution In An Employment-At-Will Arena," co-authored by Elon University Professor (and former Memphis law professor) Amy Moorman in the fall of 2014. Professor Mulroy has authored another law review article "Sunshine's Shadow: Overbroad Open Meetings Acts As Content-Based And Distinct From Finance Disclosure" which has been accepted for publication in several law journals and is currently being evaluated by others. He made a presentation on this article at St. Mary's Law School in San Antonio, Texas in the fall of 2014. Visiting Assistant Professor John Newman's article "Cloud-Computing Contracts and Innovation Policy" was accepted for publication in the Handbook of Research on Digital Transformations for a forthcoming 2015 issue. Professor Daniel Schaffzin's latest article "Warning! Lawyer Advertising May Be Hazardous to Your Health: A Call to Limit Commercial Solicitation of Clients in Pharmaceutical Litigation" was published in the winter 2013-14 volume of the Charleston Law Review. The article has been reprinted in the latest Volume 63 of the Defense Law Journal. In April 2014, Professor Daniel Schaffzin co-presented a concurrent session entitled "Educating Money (and Other Motivators): Teaching Social Justice and Life Balance to Future For-Profit Attorneys" at the annual AALS Conference on Clinical Education in Chicago, Ill. Professor Katherine Schaffzin has been named as a Provost's Fellow by the University of Memphis and will serve in this role in the Provost's office in spring 2015. Professor Katherine Schaffzin also had her article "Beyond Bobby Jo Clary: The Unavailability of Same-Sex Marital Privileges Infringes the Rights of So Many More than Criminal Defendants" in the October 2014 issue of the Kansas Law Review. Professor Kevin Smith published his article "25 années de problem-solving courts aux Etats-Unis" in the French publication Cahiers de la sécurité intérieure (Journal of Safety). Professor Smith also continues his service on the Tennessee Access to Justice Commission – Education Advisory Committee and the Tennessee Access to Justice Commission – Pro Bono Committee. During the Legal Writing Institute's 2014 Biennial Conference, Professor Jodi Wilson gave a poster presentation entitled "Wikipedia on the Rise: Teaching Legal Writers to Assess Non-Traditional Sources." In June 2014, Professor Wilson gave a joint presentation with Robert B. Vandiver, Jr., entitled "Joint Representation in Bankruptcy - Ethical Considerations" at the American Bankruptcy Institute's 2014 Memphis Consumer Bankruptcy Conference. Professor Wilson has been appointed to serve as the chair of the Listserv Committee of the Legal Writing Institute and the co-chair of the Survey Committee of the Association of Legal Writing Directors. In April 2014, Professor Chris Zawisza presented a seminar on "Hot Topics in Education Law" to over 100 student teachers in the University of Memphis Department of Education student teaching seminar. In June 2014, she presented a CLE on "Ethics and Professionalism: Integrity in the Courtroom" in Nashville on behalf of the Tennessee Administrative Office of the Courts Dependency Court Improvement Program (AOC). The session has been videotaped for viewing on the AOC website. Spring 2014 Professor Boris Mamlyuk's essay, Uniting for "Peace" in the Second Cold War: A Response to Larry Johnson, was recently published on the American Society for International Law website. To read the full essay, please click here. In an extremely unique result of legal scholarship, Prof. Andrew McClurg's presumption proposal in the recent Hasting Law Journal was enacted into law in Florida. The presumption statute pass unanimously through each legislative committee and also the Florida House and Senate. Florida Governor Rick Scott signed it into law on June 20, 2014 and it has an effective date of October 1, 2014. This is the ONLY statute of its type in the nation. To read a PDF version of the original article, click HERE . To see the final version of the Florida statute, please click HERE . Prof. Amy Campbell, director of the University of Memphis Health Law Institute, has been selected as one of 10 faculty fellows chosen to participate in the Future of Public Health Law Education: Faculty Fellowship Program. The program is funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation to foster innovations and build a learning community among those who teach public health law at professional and graduate schools. For more information, visit law.gsu.edu/phlfellowship. Professor D.R. Jones is the recipient of the 2014 American Association of Law Libraries Law Library Journal Article of the Year Award. This national award, which is one of AALL's highest honors, is given for outstanding achievement in research and writing. The award is for Professor Jones' article entitled Locked Collections: Copyright and the Future of Research Support, 105 Law Library Journal 425 (2013) (available HERE ). Professor Jones will receive the award at the AALL Annual Meeting in July 2014. Spring 2013 Prof. Boris Mamlyuk participated in an academic conference titled "Russia Between Asia and Europe" in Moscow and Perm, Russia from May 27 to June 2, 2013. The conference was organized by Rossotrudnichestvo, under the jurisdiction of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Prof. Mamlyuk also participated in the Institute for Global Law and Policy Conference and Colloquium at Harvard Law School from June 2 to June 8, 2013. Prof. Mamlyuk presented remarks on a forthcoming article with Dr. Karolina Zurek, titled "Political Economy of a 21st Century Corporate Mass Merger: Walmart-Massmart and the Future of Global Governance." Prof. Andrew McClurg and portions of his book, The Companion Text to Law School: Understanding and Surving Life with a Law Student, were featured in an article from The National Jurist entitled "Can You Love While in Law School?" Click here for the full article. Prof. Christina Zawisza was reappointed by the Tennessee Supreme Court to the Court Improvement Program Work Group. The Supreme Court has asked the Work Group to review and revise the Tennessee Rules of Juvenile Procedure. Prof. Kate Schaffzin's article, The Great and Powerful Oz Revealed: The Ethics and Wisdom of the SCOTUS Leaks in National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebilius, 7 CHARLESTON L. REV. 317 (Winter 2012-13) (invited submission) will be published later this year in the Charleston Law Review. Prof. Jodi Wilson has several recent publications: How the Supreme Court Thwarted the Purpose of the Federal Arbitration Act, 63 CASE W. RES. L. REV. 91 (2012) and Students Can't Avoid What They Can't See: Helping Students Recognize Ethical Pitfalls, THE SECOND DRAFT, Fall 2012, at 11. A forthcoming publication will be: Teaching by Engaging; Engaging by Gaming, The Learning Curve (forthcoming Winter 2013-2014). Associate Dean for Academic Affairs David Romantz was elected to the Executive Committee of the Association of American Law Schools (AALS) Section for Legislation &amp; Law of Political Process. Prof. Kate Schaffzin presented at the Tennessee District Attorneys General Conference at the University of Memphis School of Law in early 2013. She presented a course on Prosecutorial Ethics in Closing Arguments. Whitney Curtis, Assistant Director for Public Services in the Memphis Law Library, recently published an article titled We Go Out Looking for Trouble: Taking Library Services to the Patrons' Point of Need in Perspectives: Teaching Legal Research and Writing. Assistant Professor Boris Mamlyuk presented a paper at the University of Maryland, in connection with the annual meeting of the Society of American Law Teachers. The presentation topic was "Logic and Pedagogy: Third World Perspectives &amp; Public International Law." A link to the conference can be found here . Prof. Shapiro's article titled Examining an Underdeveloped Constitutional Standard: Trial in Absentia and the Relinquishment of a Criminal Defendant's Right to be Present will be published in the Winter, 2013 issue of the Marquette Law Review. Prof. Daniel Kiel was recently selected as one of the University of Memphis' 2013 Martin Luther King, Jr. Human Rights Award recipients. Prof. Alena Allen recently presented her paper, Direct to Consumer Advertising and Neo Classical Economics: A Dangerous Cocktail, at the St. Louis University and American Society of Law, Medicine, and Ethics health scholars workshop. Prof. D.R. Jones was appointed to serve on the American Association of Law Libraries' Copyright Committee, a national committee that serves to represent, promote, and advocate AALL's interests regarding copyright and other intellectual property issues. Professor D.R. Jones' article, Protecting the Treasure: An Assessment of State Court Rules and Policies for Access to Online Civil Court Records, was accepted for publication in the Drake Law Review, volume 61, issue 2 (2013). The article has been distributed in the LSN Information Privacy Law eJournal (sponsored by the George Washington University Law School and the Berkeley Center for Law and Technology), the LSN Cyberspace Law eJournal and the LSN Information &amp; Technology eJournal. Fall 2012 Assistant Dean for Career Services, Estelle Winsett, was recently named one of the 2013 Memphis Bar Association Fellows. Professor Lynda Black's review of Alan L. Feld's article, Who Are the Beneficiaries of Fisk University's Stieglitz Collection?, was recently published inTrusts &amp; Estates JOTWELL publication. Please read her full review, The Failings of Donor Intent, by clicking here&gt;&gt; Herff Chair and Professor Andrew McClurg's article , Fight Club: Doctors vs. Lawyers, was recently published as the lead article in Chicago Medicine Magazine, the official publication of the Chicago Medical Society. The article is a revised, shortened version of an article McClurg originally published in the Temple Law Review. To read the article, please click here&gt;&gt; Herff Chair and Professor Andrew McClurg's book review of Philip Howard's Life Without Lawyers: Restoring Responsibility in America has been published in the American Journal of Legal History, vol. 52, p. 387. Professor Danny Schaffzin has been appointed by Memphis Mayor A.C. Wharton, Jr. to serve on the Memphis Civil Service Commission. The Civil Service Commission, comprised of seven members, conducts hearings to review disciplinary actions, including suspensions, dismissals, or demotions, of any city employees not exempted from the provisions of the City of Memphis Charter and Code. Members of the Commission are appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of a majority of the Memphis City Council. Professor Schaffzin will serve a three-year term as a commissioner. Summer 2012 The Community Alliance for the Homeless has recognized our very own Professor Steve Mulroy, also a Shelby County Commissioner, by awarding him the Homeless Public Champion Award for his recent advocacy for the homeless. Please click here to read more. Jamie B. Kidd has been named the assistant director for Law School Administration at the University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law. Her responsibilities will include matters concerning human resources, accreditation, budgeting, academic regulations, and other administration-related projects. Jacqueline O'Bryant is the new coordinator of diversity programs at the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law at the University of Memphis. O'Bryant will oversee the Tennessee Institute for Prelaw, the state's only summer diversity access program for law school. She will also actively recruit and support diverse law students, while developing additional diversity outreach initiatives for the school. The Student Bar Association has named Assistant U.S. Attorney Steve Parker as the 2011-2012 Adjunct Professor of the Year and has posthumously named Professor Francis Gabor as the 2011-2012 Professor of the Year. Professor Daniel Kiel received the Farris Bobango Scholarship Award for The Memphis 13, a documentary film. The film tells the stories of the 13 African-American individuals who broke the color line in the Memphis City Schools system. Herff Chair and Professor Andrew McClurg is one of 10 professors nationwide to be invited to this summer's West Author Inside Look conference, in which select West Academic Publishing authors are invited to the publisher's manufacturing headquarters in Minneapolis to meet with editors and staff to tour the facility and discuss current and future trends in legal publishing. Spring 2012 Professor Boris Mamlyuk will be participating in the third annual Institute of Global Law and Policy workshop at Harvard Law School from May 29 to June 9, 2012. Click here to view a video of Professor Mamlyuk's from last year's Workshop. Whitney A. Curtis, Assistant Director, Public Services at the Law Library, was a presenter at the 2012 Southeastern American Association of Law Libraries Conference. The Conference is entitled In Step with the Future, and is in Clearwater Beach, Florida on March 22-24, 2012. Ms. Curtis will present a session entitled We Go Out Looking for Trouble: Taking Library Services to Patrons' Point of Need. This presentation is part of the SEAALL Insitutute, Going Mobile in a Mobile World. Professor Christina Zawisza has been reappointed by Tennessee Supreme Court Justice Sharon Lee for an additional year on the Court Improvement Program Workgroup. The workgroup is charged with identifying and addressing barriers for safety, permanency, and child and family well-being at the state and local levels. At the invitation of the Governor's Counsel, Professor Eugene Shapiro recently submitted his views concerning the constitutional issues involved with the state regulation of a public forum. Two law professors, Chris Zawisza and Angela Laughlin Brown, are working with law students to assist the Shelby County Juvenile Court in operating its Youth Court program. Youth Court is an effort to divert juvenile first time offenders from adjudication as delinquents. Professor Zawisza recently presided over one Youth Court trial, while a Student Attorney in the Child and Family Litigation Clinic, Jennifer Sutch, mentored a young prosecutor. Professor Laughlin-Brown also recently mentored a high school student and also introduced her Evidence students to the Youth Court process. Professor Daniel Schaffzin was a presenter at the Externships 6 Conference, Preparing Lawyers: The Role of Field Placement, co-hosted by Harvard Law School and Northeastern University School of Law on March 1-4, 2012. Professor Schaffzin presented as part of a session entitled "Necessary Control or Control Freak? For and Against Faculty Selection of For-Credit Field Placements for Externship Students." Professor Alena Allen recently published an article in the BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY LAW REVIEW entitled State-Mandated Disability Insurance as Salve to the Consumer Bankruptcy Imbroglio. Professor Barbara Kritchevsky, whose article, Judging: The Missing Piece of the Moot Court Puzzle, served as inspiration for the Legal Writing Institute's model guidelines for oral argument judges. The guidelines will be used by coordinators of intramural and national moot court competitions to educate their oral argument judges. The article originally appeared in 37 U. Mem. L. Rev. 45 (2006). Professor and Herff Chair Andrew McClurg was interviewed on West Academic Publishing's Insider Blog about his new book, The "Companion Text" to Law School: Understanding and Surviving Life with a Law Student. Callie Caldwell (JD 10) has been named the first public interest counselor in the Office of Career Services. Read more here&gt;&gt; Estelle Winsett, Assistant Dean for Career Services, was recently named a West TN Delegate for the TBA General, Solo and Small Firm Practitioner's Section Executive Council. Professor Katharine Traylor Schaffzin contributed to the winter edition of the AALS Evidence Section Newsletter. Professor Daniel Schaffzin will be a presenter at the Externships 6 Conference in March. Professor Schaffzin's session abstract is "Necessary Control or Control Freak? For and Against Faculty Selection of For-Credit Field Placements for Externship Students." The session will be held at Harvard Law School. Professor Boris Mamlyuk recently published an article in the WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY GLOBAL STUDIES LAW REVIEW entitled Russia and Legal Harmonization: an Historical Inquiry into IP Reform as Global Convergence and Resistance. Professor Lee Harris recently gave a talk to Duquense Law School faculty in Pittsburgh, regarding executive compensation and reform. Professor and Herff Chair Andrew McClurg recently published a book entitled, The "Companion" Text to Law School: Understanding and Surviving Life with a Law Student (West 2012). Read more about the book here. Fall 2011 Professor Donna Harkness published an article in the December 2011 edition of the TENNESSEE BAR JOURNAL, Now That We've Got It, What Does It Do For Us? The Uniform Adult Guardianship and Protective Proceedings Jurisdiction Act! The article is the feature story in the publication. Professor Katharine Traylor Schaffzin contributed to the winter edition of the AALS Evidence Section Newsletter. Professor Katarine Traylor Schaffzin authored three guest posts on EvidenceProf Blog regarding the newly revised Federal Rules of Evidence that became effective on December 1, 2011. Click on the following links for the posts: Take 1, Take 2 and Take 3. Professor Lee Harris recently authored a guest column for the Commercial Appeal. Professor and Herff Chair Andrew McClurg was recently featured in an entertaining article in the Commercial Appeal. Associate Dean David Romantz spoke to the Memphis Daily News about the law school's new curriculum, effective for the incoming class of 2012. Professor and Herff Chair Andrew McClurg's article, Fixing the Broken Windows of Online Privacy Through Private Ordering: A Facebook Application, has been published as the feature article by the Wake Forest Law Review Online. Professor Boris Mamlyuk attended a conference on Third World Approaches to International Law (TWAIL) hosted by the University of Oregon, School of Law from October 20-22, 2011. His presentation discussed whether TWAIL frameworks offer any guidance to understanding international law developments in the Post-Soviet space. Additionally, Professor Mamlyuk moderated a panel titled "Situating TWAIL within Political Struggles and Ideational Contestations." The conference brought more than 50 international law scholars from more than ten countries. Professor Ernest Lidge was a panel speaker at the ABA/NLRA Practice and Procedure Region meeting on Friday, Sept. 10 on the topic of "NLRB Rule Making: Proposed Amendments to Election Procedures." He will also speak at the upcoming Federal Bar Association Annual Seminar on Wednesday, Oct. 26 on the topic of "Ethics of Contacting the Opposing Party's Current and Former Employees." The Memphis 13, a documentary directed and produced by Professor Daniel Kiel, premiered to the public on Tuesday, October 4, 2011. Click here for the full release. Professor Steven Mulroy spoke on Separation of Church and State: DeSoto County Issues on Sept. 15, at the Cordova Library. The event was sponsored by the Memphis Freethought Alliance. The talk dealt with the constitutional issues raised by the recent controversies in DeSoto County regarding the broadcast of prayers at public high school football games, and the distribution of Bibles by private groups on public school campuses during school hours. The Law Teacher will publish an essay written by David S. Romantz, Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, in its spring 2012 edition. Professor Lee Harris was recently included in Memphis-based Grace Magazine's "Top Forty Under Forty" list. Read the September issue of the National Jurist for insights from Professor Andrew McClurg about the first year of law school. The Law Teacher is published twice a year by the Institute for Law Teaching and Learning (previously the Institute for Law School Teaching). It provides a forum for ideas for improving teaching and learning in law schools and informs law teachers of the activities of the Institute. Jamie Kidd (JD 10) joined the law school in August as Acting Assistant Dean for Administration. Memphis Law named five new faculty in the fall of 2011. Professor Barbara Kritchevsky chatted with the Daily News in August about her years of involvement with Memphis Law's advocacy program. Professor Daniel Kiel was featured in August on CSPAN discussing the history of Memphis school desegregation. This summer, Professor Lee Harris published his second book, Corporations and Other Business Entities: A Practical Approach. Janette Smith, law school receptionist, received a Bachelor of Professional Studies with a concentration in Organizational Leadership from the University of Memphis. Professor and Herff Chair Andrew J. McClurg's book, 1L of a Ride: A Well-Traveled Professor's Roadmap to Success in the First Year of Law School, was recently touted in an article about the summer before law school that appears in both the National Jurist's Prelaw and Concurring Opinions, a well-respected legal blog. Click here to browse the archived faculty and staff news. Faculty &amp; Staff Full-Time Faculty Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty News Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .