#http://www.memphis.edu/chem/about/apply.php
Apply - Department of Chemistry - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Chemistry About Programs People Research Resources About Welcome Letter Apply News Grants &amp; Awards Facilities Publications Outreach Chemistry Careers Home Department of Chemistry About Apply Applying to the Chemistry Department There are many different ways to join in and contribute the fast-paced research and innovation underway in the Chemistry Department at the University of Memphis. Prospective Undergraduates Students looking to complete an undergraduate degree as a B.S. or B.S.Ch. in Chemistry at the University of Memphis may select and complete the appropriate application from the listed forms on this page ; more information (including course listings and degree requirements prospective Graduate students General Information Thank you in advance for your interest in the department -- we are very proud of our current graduate students, faculty, and staff and look forward to learning how you can contribute to the exciting discourse, research, and facilities underway in the Chemistry Department. Before you join us however, you must submit an application. Familiarize yourself with the application process by exploring the links below. How to Apply to Graduate School Admission Requirements for International Students Application Forms, Prerequisites, and Policies Please note that teaching and research assistantships, including a competitive stipend and all tuition and fees, are available only for full-time students (we even pay your parking!). Competition for assistantships is vigorous, and there is no guarantee that all admitted students will receive financial assistance. Once an assistantship has been awarded, it will continue until graduation, so long as you are making satisfactory progress towards your degree. All prospective graduate students must complete and submit a copy of the general application to the Graduate School at the University of Memphis application in addition to the form below to be considered for admission to Ph.D. and/or M.S. (Chemistry) courses of study.Please note that students will not be allowed to enroll as a graduate student in the Chemistry Department unless they meet the following prerequisites: Satisfactory record of undergraduate coursework in chemistry GRE general examination* test scores (or departmental waiver**) TOEFL for most international applicants Admission to Graduate School at the University of Memphis * GRE subject exam is not required ** Departmental waivers for GRE scores are rarely granted Do not send application materials to the Graduate Coordinator. These materials must be sent to the Graduate School. Your application can not be processed or considered by the department until your application to the graduate school is complete. Also, note that assistantships can not be approved until you are fully admitted to the Graduate School. International students must also supply the following: TOEFL Score: minimum score of 550 on the paper exam or 210 on the computer-based exam. Normally much higher scores are required to obtain departmental support. Evaluation of Credentials: A course-by course evaluation report is required. Health Certificate: Within 30 days from the first day of classes, each international student must submit a certificate from a licensed U.S. physician or other qualified U.S. medical authority verifying freedom from tuberculosis. Health Insurance: All international students must purchase health insurance before they are allowed to enroll. Please see the graduate school's website for further information. Departmental Application Form To complete your application: Apply to the graduate school Have two letters of recommendation sent directly to the graduate coordinator at ( gradchem@memphis.edu ). Emailed letters are required. The email must be sent directly from the letter writer's institutional email account. Complete and submit this form: ( Please be sure to enter your name and a valid email address! ) Name: e-mail address: Which graduate degree are you interested in pursuing? Ph.D. Thesis M.S. In what area(s) of chemistry research are you interested? Analytical Inorganic Computational Organic Materials Organometallic Physical other? Anticipated date (semester and year) for beginning graduate studies at The U of M: I will receive have received B.A. B.S. in which subject? Chemistry Biochemistry other subject? from what university? I will receive have received M.S. in which subject? Chemistry Biochemistry other subject? from what university? If you are currently employed, what is your current position? Please provide your college GPA (A=4, B=3, C=2, D=1) Overall Chemistry Last two years Graduate Record Examination scores (if available) Verbal Quantitative Analytical If you have not taken the GRE exam, please indicate the date you plan to take the exam TOEFL Score (if applicable), please indicate if paper or computer exam Please describe any previous research experience: Please describe any previous teaching experience: Are you a U.S. citizen? yes no If you are not a U.S. citizen, are you a permanent resident? no yes Please check one of the following statements: I am not interested in receiving a teaching or research assistantship. I am interested in receiving an assistantship, but may attend the University of Memphis even if an assistantship is not awarded. I am interested in receiving an assistantship, and will not be able to attend the University of Memphis if an assistantship is not awarded. Any other colleges attended (Name and Location; Dates of Attendance; Major; Degree Awarded): Enter any questions you would like answered, or additional information you wish to submit: After you start your application with the graduate school, you will receive a UID (it starts with a U and ends in numbers). Please forward your UID to the Graduate Coordinator ( gradchem@memphis.edu ) After your application is complete (fees paid, transcripts, and GRE scores, and, if applicable, certificates and TOEFL score), you will receive a confirmation email from the graduate school. Please forward this email to the Graduate Coordinator ( gradchem@memphis.edu ) About Welcome Letter Apply News Grants &amp; Awards Facilities Publications Outreach Chemistry Careers Apply to the Department of Chemistry Now accepting applications for graduate school! Contact us! Call us (901.678.2621) or stop by the Departmental office at Smith Chemistry Rm 210 Seminar Schedule F2015 Click here for the Fall Seminar schedule! What's new? Click here to see what's new in our Department! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .