#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/vice_president/
Vice President's Office - RSP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Division of Research and Sponsored Programs Vice President Compliance Sponsored Programs Research Development Vice President for Research Research Development Research Foundation Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Integrated Microscopy Center High Performance Computing Internal Programs Home RSP Vice President for Research The Vice President for Research Mission The Office for the Vice President for Research supports University of Memphis faculty's scholarship of discovery and innovation across our campuses. We work to promote research and creative activities by focusing on interdisciplinary scholarship, facilitating partnerships, from local to international, and enabling our faculty to move the products of their work from the laboratory, classroom, field and studio to the community. We accomplish these goals by strategically investing our personnel and resources in efficient and effective infrastructure, policies and administration. Greetings from the Vice President Welcome to the offices of the Vice President of Research. Hopefully, you have just read our mission statement and, like most mission statements, it promises quite a lot. Here at the University of Memphis, however, having a significant impact is exactly what we are attempting to do. In Memphis and throughout the Mid-South this university is committed, through its student-focused educational programs, our faculty's endeavors in research and creative activities, our partnerships with the corporate community, local, regional and federal governments, foundations and citizens groups, to serve and benefit our region, our nation and our world. Our research development and structure includes my office, the Office of Sponsored Programs, the Office of Technology Transfer, the Integrated Microscopy Center, Environmental Health and Safety and the university's Animal Care operation. On our associated web pages you will find a broad range of services for faculty research and the arts; from our development officers supporting faculty project generation from the initial idea, through the building of collaborative research teams, all the way to proposal submission and project initiation and conduct. We are also responsible for faculty incentive programs, seed funding for research, research policy on campus, the responsible conduct of research and the broad array of compliance requirements we now face. We engage in regular strategic planning with our faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and president to make sure that our research directions are consistent with our university's strengths, the priorities of our region and current national research priorities. We strive to align our investments in research with those priorities. Those investments also focus on the development of strong, interdisciplinary research groups and the support systems that our scientists must have to succeed in today's complex and competitive research environment. Finally, in our Office of Technology Transfer , we enable faculty to identify the potential commercial value of their research products, and where appropriate, to bring those products to the marketplace. I hope the information on our website will be helpful to you but if you have any questions please contact us. —Dr. Andrew Meyers, Interim Vice President for Research Vice President for Research Research Development Research Foundation Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Integrated Microscopy Center High Performance Computing Internal Programs Forms Forms and other useful information Staff Staff of Research and Sponsored Programs and Grants Accounting Resources Institutional information and resources for the researcher Research Portal Research Portal Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .