#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11466
Corporate Relations Manager Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Corporate Relations Manager Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE822 Advertised Title Corporate Relations Manager Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 011028 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department Career Services Minimum Position Qualifications Master’s degree in Human Resources, Higher Education, Public Relations, Business or a closely related field with minimum 3 years of experience in corporate recruiting, university career services office, public relations or similar field. Special Conditions Work Schedule Monday &#8211; Friday 8:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. May need to work/travel beyond normal work schedule Posting Date 10/30/2015 Closing Date 11/20/2015 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range $40,000- $45,000 per year Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit, use hands to handle or feel, and talk or hear. The employee frequently is required to walk. The employee is occasionally required to stand, reach with hands and arms, and stoop, kneel, or crouch. The employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to 10 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision. Additional Working Conditions Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Implement and manage a comprehensive employer development strategic plan to include developing and managing outreach efforts, recruiting strategies and employer relations with business, industry and government. Duties & Responsibilities Collaborate with academic departments within the University in an effort to centralize the internship process, as well as benchmark successful strategies employed by others responsible for assisting students in obtaining internships. Duties & Responsibilities Conduct and/or secure subject matter experts to conduct workshops, panels, and seminars on various topics to enhance students&#8217; knowledge of strategies/techniques that may and should be employed. Duties & Responsibilities Assist in the development and production of departmental marketing materials directed to internal and external stakeholders. Assist in maintaining the department&#8217;s website. Duties & Responsibilities Participate in the development of Career Services policies and procedures, which affect the direction of employment services for students and alumni. Establish metrics for success and conduct on-going assessment of the employer recruitment program. Duties & Responsibilities Proactively educate administrators, faculty, staff, and students about the importance of internships and the benefits of Career Services and Academic Affairs working together to facilitate opportunities for students to gain experiential learning opportunities. Duties & Responsibilities Supervise the Employer Relations Team to include the Recruiting Coordinator and a Graduate Assistant. Manage all recruitment programs including on-campus interviews, career fairs, information sessions and Tigerlink (online job database). Duties & Responsibilities Work closely with academic deans, faculty, staff, the Development Office and Alumni Relations to expand and maintain employer relationships. Duties & Responsibilities Assist and advise students on all aspects of the job and/or internship process with a particular focus on seeking and obtaining employment and internships. Help students/alumni with resume and cover letter development. Duties & Responsibilities Work collaboratively as a team member on Career Services initiatives as well as on other university activities. Duties & Responsibilities Other duties as assigned Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). * Do you have any corporate recruiting experience and/or University Career Services experience? Please explain. (Open Ended Question) * Do you possess a Master&#x27;s degree? yes no Applicant Documents Required Documents Resume Cover Letter Unofficial Transcript Optional Documents References List