#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies/UM1483.htm
UM1483 - Copyrighted Materials, Use of - The University of Memphis The University of Memphis Copyrighted Materials, Use of POLICIES Issued:&nbsp July 31, 2007 Responsible Official:&nbsp President Responsible Office:&nbsp Legal Counsel Policy Statement Policy Statement It is the policy of The University of Memphis that faculty, staff and students must comply with United States Copyright Law of 1976, as amended (Title 17 USC, hereinafter "Copyright Act") regarding the use of copyrighted materials, whether in the performance of official employment duties or when using University resources, including University information technology resources. Purpose &nbsp To inform members of the University community about their obligations under the copyright laws of the United States, and to provide information regarding University resources available to assist them with copyright compliance issues. Procedures Compliance Copyrighted materials, including but not limited to books, journal articles, video or audio recordings, photographs, software, etc. may be copied or otherwise reproduced, including digital reproduction, without permission of the copyright owner(s) only if the use meets the requirements for "Fair Use," "Classroom Performance or Display," as provided in the Copyright Act, or in the recent amendment to the Copyright Act known as the Technology, Education and Copyright Harmonization ("TEACH") Act. Information for faculty, staff, and students regarding compliance with copyright laws may be found at . Specific questions regarding copyright compliance should be emailed to copyrighthelp@memphis.edu . Employees may also contact the University's Office of Legal Counsel for information regarding use of copyright materials in the performance of official employment duties. Failure to comply with applicable copyright laws may result in employment discipline, up to and including termination, or, in the case of students, referral to the Office of Judicial and Ethical Affairs for disciplinary action, including termination of access to on-line services and/or other serious sanctions, up to and including suspension. Copyright infringement also potentially may result in personal liability for an individual infringer. Employees who make a good faith effort to comply with the terms of this policy may be represented by the Tennessee State Attorney Generals Office in the event of a claim of infringement resulting from the performance of official employment duties. Claims of Infringement As provided for in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the University has a registered agent to whom claims of infringement should be directed. Notices of claimed infringement must contain the informatoin required by the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, Title II, Section 512(c). FAQs Who is the University of Memphis' Registered Agent? Melanie Murry, Office of Legal Counsel, University of Memphis, Memphis, TN 38152, (901) 678-2155 (phone), mmurry@memphis.edu . Links Copyright Help &nbsp Revision Dates &nbsp UM1483 - Issued: July 31, 2007 - supercedes policy number 1:2A:03:02 Updated: January 31, 2006 UM1483 - Issued: April 14, 2003 Subject Areas: Academic Finance General Human Resources Information Technology Student Affairs &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp