#http://www.memphis.edu/law/current-students/course-catalog.php
Course Catalog - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Current Students Registrar Course &amp; Class Information Course Catalog Curriculum Registration Calendars Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Records Request Graduation Requirements Academic Regulations Student Advising Bar Exam Information Academic Regulations Student Organizations Student Affairs Student Affairs Overview Academic Success Program Bar Exam Information Bookstore Commencement Counseling Services Information Technology Law School ID Cards Locker Rentals Orientation Parking TN Lawyers Assistance Prog. Student Advising Study Abroad Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council GA Timesheet Form Home School of Law Current Students Course Catalog COURSE CATALOG Below students can find information about required, elective and specialized courses offered at Memphis Law. Numerical Course List Alphabetical Course List Electives &amp; Specialized Areas of Study Upper-level Research &amp; Skills Requirement Degree Programs Certificate Programs Alphabetical Course List A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | X | Y | Z •Skip to Electives and Specialized Areas of Study Administrative Law Course 311 3-hour practice foundation menu course Administrative agencies execute law affecting almost every aspect of daily life, including labor and employment, environmental, intellectual property, insurance, transportation, and health laws. This course does not focus on the substantive law of any particular agency; it instead examines principles and procedures common to all agencies, derived in large part from the U.S. Constitution and the Administrative Procedure Act. The course will examine the sources of agency authority, the limitations on agency actions, the procedures that agencies must use in rulemaking and adjudication, and the availability and scope of judicial review of agency actions. Admiralty and Maritime Law Course Number 312 2-hour elective course This 2-hour course will focus on traditional admiralty and maritime law concepts, including an examination of the Jones Act, unseaworthiness, the Longshore and Harbor Workers’ Compensation Act, and the general maritime law. The course will cover issues relating to maritime contracts and liens, limitation of liability, issues relating to collisions, allisions, and breakaways, fleeter’s liability, and issues relating to admiralty jurisdiction. The course will also review the available defenses and damages. While the concepts taught are applicable to all areas of maritime practice, the primary focus will be on maritime law as it applies to the inland waterways of the United States. Advanced Appellate Advocacy Course 523 1- or 2-hour skills course Advanced Appellate Advocacy is a skills course for students participating on Moot Court Travel Teams. It focuses on developing and practicing skills in brief-writing and oral advocacy. Students who both write a competition brief and argue orally are eligible for two credits. It is a non-classroom course and students should enroll during the semester in which they compete in an inter-school competition. Students are able to take the course more than once, if they compete in more than one inter-school competition. The Director of Advocacy may award grades of Excellent, Pass, or Fail, based on the recommendation of the team’s coach. Advanced Brief Writing Seminar Course 453 2-hour research/writing course This class is designed to offer students who have some experience with writing briefs the opportunity to hone their brief-writing skills. The class will discuss how to research an issue in depth and present a case persuasively, considering issues such as developing a theory of the case, arguing thematically, using the components of the brief effectively, using precedent effectively, and structuring the argument persuasively. Students will have substantial latitude in selecting an issue to brief. Students will write a brief to a court of last resort and will present the case orally. This course satisfies the Advanced Research/Writing requirement. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Advanced Constitutional Law: Freedom of Speech Course 396 3-hour elective course This course examines many of the principal doctrines which have evolved with regard to the First Amendment's protection of "the freedom of speech." Among the areas discussed are the values served by this guarantee, the Supreme Court's process of categorizing unprotected speech, the issues of content and manner regulation, the forum, prior restraints, the right not to speak, and the consequences of governmental employment or support of speech. Advanced Trial Advocacy Course 524 1-hour skills course Advanced Trial Advocacy is a skills course for students participating on mock trial travel teams. It focuses on developing and enhancing the skills necessary to put on a basic trial. It is a non-classroom course and students should enroll during the semester in which they compete in an inter-school competition. Students are able to take the course more than once, if they compete in more than one inter-school competition. The Director of Advocacy may award grades of Excellent, Pass, or Fail, based on the recommendation of the team’s coach. This course satisfies the upper-level skills requirement. ADR-Labor Course 315 2-hour skills course This course offers Negotiations and Mediation skills to prepare the student to properly represent clients in labor mediation and other alternative dispute resolution techniques. This course satisfies the upper-level skills requirement. Prerequisite (Recommended): Professional Responsibility and Evidence ADR-Mediation Course 316 2-hour skills course This course offers negotiation and mediation skills to prepare the student to properly represent clients in mediation. This course satisfies the upper-level skills requirement. Prerequisite (Required): Professional Responsibility and Evidence, prior to or concurrently &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Antitrust Law Course 318 2-hour elective course Antitrust law is concerned with how firms compete in the marketplace. Given its broad focus on market competition, the study of antitrust allows students to better understand how modern economies function and why businesses (large and small) behave the way they do. The primary strategies addressed are monopolistic conduct, cartel behavior, mergers and acquisitions, and joint-venture activities. Particular areas of focus include amateur-sports regulation, regulatory capture of state licensing boards, and evolving healthcare markets. Appellate Advocacy Course 309 3-hour skills course Appellate Advocacy is a writing skills course that builds on Legal Methods II. The course covers the basics of appellate advocacy: analyzing an issue on appeal, writing an appellate brief, and preparing and delivering an oral argument. The course offers instruction in brief writing through regular writing assignments, culminating in an appellate brief. It also offers instruction in how to prepare and deliver an oral argument. Students write a brief and give and judge oral arguments. Grades are based on the written work, oral arguments, and other aspects of class participation. This course is integrated with the Advanced Moot Court Competition, although class members are not required to compete. The Advanced Moot Court problem will be the basis of class discussion. The Advanced Moot Court brief will be the draft brief for the course. Students will rewrite that brief for the final grade. The Advanced Moot Court Competition will give students the opportunity to practice their arguments for the final in-class argument. The course will be scheduled around the Advanced Moot Court Competition. Classes will focus on brief-writing until the Advanced brief is due. Classes from the time the brief is due until the competition starts will discuss oral argument. Class will not meet during the Advanced Competition so students can devote their attention to competing. Students who complete the Advanced Moot Court Competition and one other competition are eligible for one credit in addition to the two credits for this course. All students are highly encouraged to take this course to learn the basics of appellate advocacy and develop writing skills. This course is extremely important for students who wish to participate on moot court competition teams or become a member of the moot court board. This course satisfies the upper-level skills requirement. Banking Law Course 385 2-hour elective course Banks have traditionally occupied a unique role in the operation of the financial system. This role has been magnified by the consolidation that has occurred in the financial services industry and the internationalization of the economy. This course will cover basic banking law: the structure of banking regulation, bank charters, bank holding companies, and lending and deposit issues. It will then go on to explore the recent consolidation of banking, insurance, and securities services. The course will examine the mechanics of key bank operations including, syndicated lending, underwriting and the securitization of debt securities. The course will also consider various international banking issues pertaining to the operation of foreign banks in this country and the offshore operations of United States banks. Bioethics &amp; the Law Course 304 2-hour elective course This course examines the legal pillars of contemporary medical ethics and, more broadly, "bioethics." It will focus particularly on [a] informed consent, [b] end of life, [c] medical research, and [d] the financial challenges of modern health care. The materials and discussion will emphasize the ways in which, historically, bioethics is rooted heavily in case law and the difficult human stories those cases addressed. And they will emphasize the day-to-day clinical realities that must be understood if difficult bioethical/legal questions are to be addressed insightfully and appropriately. Business Organizations I Course 211 3-hour practice foundation menu course This course is a survey of agency law and selected statutory provisions, common law doctrines, and administrative regulations related to the formation, operation, and dissolution of general partnerships, limited partnerships, and corporations, along with the rights and responsibilities of the primary internal stakeholders of these entities. Class discussions of cases include both ethical issues associated with practicing law within the context of business situations, and practical perspectives to forward students’ development of lawyering skills while mastering terminology and substance. Although the broad framework of business serves as a backdrop for the legal doctrine, the course is designed to be accessible to students without a business background. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Civil Litigation Clinic: Children and Families Course 509 4-hour skills course This clinic offers student attorneys the opportunity to develop the core legal skills determined by the ABA’s MacCrate Report to be fundamental to the successful practice of law. This is foremost a litigation clinic, which allows student to practice essential skills necessary in a litigation practice, in the context of representing children. Due to the nature of a child and family law practice, this Clinic has a strong interdisciplinary bent. Student attorneys primarily represent children as court-appointed Guardians ad Litem in juvenile court in child abuse and neglect or termination of parental rights proceedings. There is a great demand for court-appointed attorneys in juvenile courts in Tennessee, both in child representation and parent representation, and this Clinic prepares graduates to undertake these roles. In addition, student attorneys might represent a child in education matters, delinquency hearings, adoption, guardianships, conservatorships, administrative matters such as children’s SSI, or miscellaneous other problems that might take the student to chancery, probate, or circuit court, to administrative agencies, or even to the appellate courts. Through giving a vulnerable population ‘voice’ in the legal system, the Child and Family Litigation Clinic awakens within students who will be tomorrow’s litigators, advocates, lawmakers and judges a spirit of compassion, a sense of fairness, and an understanding of equal justice. This course satisfies the upper-level skills requirement. Prerequisite (Required): Professional Responsibility and Evidence Prerequisite (Recommended): Juvenile Law and Trial Advocacy Civil Procedure I Course 114 3-hour required course This course focuses on determining the proper court for litigation of civil suits, including understanding of subject matter and territorial jurisdiction, venue and service of process. Civil Procedure II Course 124 2-hour required course This course focuses on those doctrines that determine the scope and size of a lawsuit and the formulation of issues, including claim and issue preclusion and joinder of claims and parties. Various devices for disposition of a civil action are also examined, such as pretrial motions, discovery, judgments as a matter of law, and post-trial motions. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Civil Rights Course 322 3-hour elective course This course covers § 1983 litigation and aims to make students familiar with issues that arise in prosecuting or defending a § 1983 action. TOPICS: Action under color of state law, statutory claims, Fourth Amendment, Eighth Amendment, Due Process, Immunities, Municipal Liability, Eleventh Amendment, and if time allows, Recovery (including attorney’s fees), and Jurisdictional issues. Prerequisite (Required): Constitutional Law Prerequisite (Recommended): Criminal Procedure Commercial Law Course 700 4-hour elective course This course examines core concepts of the Uniform Commercial Code, focusing on Sales (Article 2), Negotiable Instruments (Article 3), and Secured Transactions (Article 9). Related areas of law (i.e., bankruptcy, payment systems, consumer law, etc.) and aspects of commercial and business practices will be discussed as required. This course is intended to provide an overview of commercial law for students who will not be enrolling in each of the commercial law trilogy (Sales, Commercial Paper, and Secured Transactions), but who wish to obtain a significant exposure to the structure and operation of the Uniform Commercial Code, as well as to fundamental commercial law and business practices. Note: Students who already have completed two or more of the commercial law menu courses will not be permitted to enroll in Commercial Law Survey. Students who have completed Commercial Law Survey may take one of the other commercial law courses in order to gain in-depth knowledge about the chosen area; the student may take both Commercial Law Survey and one other commercial law course in the same semester. Commercial Paper Course 323 2- or 3-hour statutory menu course Bar course The law of commercial paper is concerned with the facilitation of banking and other commercial transactions through the use of negotiable paper. The course focuses on Articles 3, 4, and 4A of the Uniform Commercial Code and on relevant federal legislation affecting payment systems. Comparative Law Seminar Course 441 2-hour research/writing course Despite accelerating globalization, the world remains governed by an overlapping set of fragmented legal regimes. This seminar will survey a number of non-U.S. national legal traditions from historical, critical, and comparative perspectives. Topics of current interest will include studies of horizontal and vertical legal harmonization and regionalism. This course satisfies the Advanced Research/Writing requirement. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Conflict of Laws Course 324 3-hour elective course Bar course When an Arkansas driver is involved in an accident in Tennessee, which state's law applies? Are states ever required to recognize out-of-state marriages or apply foreign laws? Can contracting parties choose a favorable jurisdiction's laws to control their relationship? This course will prepare you to address the issues that arise when a matter may be governed by more than one legal system. Our general focus is on interstate conflicts. In particular, we concentrate on competing choice-of-law approaches, constitutional limits on choice of law, and recognition and enforcement of out-of-state judgments Constitutional Law Course 212 4-hour required course The objective of this course is to become familiar with major topics of constitutional debate and to learn to make a constitutional argument. Coverage: Article III, Commerce Clause, Dormant Commerce Clause, Articles IV &amp; VI, Due Process, Equal Protection and (time allowing) First Amendment freedoms of speech and religion. Contracts Course 121 4-hour required course This course addresses contract formation and breach of contract. Coverage includes: the meaning of the word “contract”; the doctrine of consideration and when promises may be unenforceable due to the absence of bargained-for exchange; the elements of and the subtle twists associated with offer and acceptance; the requirement of a writing for certain types of contracts; the extent to which courts “police” the substance of a bargain to prevent unfairness and limit contract enforcement; the process of defining the scope of a contract; and the interpretation of contract language. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Copyright Course 325 2- or 3-hour elective course This course covers the subject matter of copyright, limitations on the subject matter of copyright, infringement of copyright, and defenses to infringement. This course will teach concepts fundamental to Copyright Law so that students will understand and be able to apply them to analysis of issues arising in factual settings. Corporate Finance Course 384 2-hour elective course This course is designed to familiarize the student with basic concepts of corporate finance, including certain valuation methodologies, related accounting concepts and legal and administrative requirements. It will focus on the lawyer's role in corporate practice, dealing primarily with public companies, debt and equity financings and the terms and provisions of relevant instruments, such as preferred stock, subordinated debentures, warrants, stock options and various classes of common and preferred stock. It also will cover various aspects of mergers and acquisitions, tender offers and anti-takeover defenses. Prerequisites: Business Organizations; Mergers and Acquisitions is helpful but not required. Corporate Governance and Compliance Course 720 2-hour elective course This course covers corporate governance and compliance. "Corporate Governance" refers to the processes by which decisions are made within firms, including the roles played by shareholders, directors, and executives. "Corporate Compliance" refers to the processes by which an organization seeks to ensure that employees and others conform to applicable norms, which can include either the requirements of laws or regulations or the internal rules of the organization. Covered compliance mechanisms include internal enforcement, as well as the role played by regulators, prosecutors, whistleblowers, and attorneys. Corporate Law (Corporate Finance) Seminar Course 440 2-hour research/writing course This course is designed to familiarize law students with the principles of corporate finance, which is the various ways that businesses obtain money to “finance” their operations. In particular, corporate finance law addresses how businesses manage financial constraints that affect their operations and investments decisions. Businesses use a variety of financial instruments to raise money such as loans, bonds, and securities. Each type of financial instrument gives the holder (owner) of the financial instrument a certain type of legal claim against the businesses’ assets. In the world of corporate finance, the distinction between lawyers and investment bankers has become blurred. Whether, rendering a fairness opinion, preparing for an appraisal hearing, litigating securities class action or derivative suits, issuing new securities, taking a firm private via an LBO or public via an IPO, negotiating a merger agreement, acquisition or divestiture, corporate lawyers and investment bankers work side-by-side, and lawyers without an appreciation of the basics of corporate finance are at a distinct disadvantage. Moreover, this course will provide important tools for litigators in identifying, preparing, and cross-examining financial expert witnesses. Even students who do not plan to venture into the corporate world will benefit from this course. The financial principles covered are essential for lawyers intending to do estate or tax planning, litigate divorces, or write the bylaws and compensation agreements for partnerships or closed corporations. In addition to the principles of finance, the course addresses the legal norms and economic constraints that affect a corporation’s choice of capital structure, including contemporary approaches to interpreting the scope of provisions commonly found in debt and preferred stock instruments. This course satisfies the Advanced Research/Writing requirement. Prerequisite (Required): Business Organizations I Corporate Tax Course 334 3-hour statutory menu course The course focuses on the federal income tax aspects of corporate formation, capital structure, distributions to shareholders, redemptions of shareholders, liquidations, taxable acquisitions and reorganizations, and nontaxable reorganizations. Prerequisite (Required): Basic Income Tax Criminal Law Course 126 3-hour required course This course introduces students to basic principles of substantive criminal law (under the common law and one Model Penal Code), the principals of criminal culpability and the analysis of criminal statutes. Topics include: the criminal act, mens rea, homicide, attempt, complicity, conspiracy and defenses. Criminal Procedure I Course 223 3-hour practice foundation menu course An examination of principles of constitutional criminal procedure, with a focus on search and seizure, the right to counsel, the law governing interrogation and confessions, and pre-trial identification procedures and other selected issues. Criminal Procedure II Course 326 2-hour elective course Covers all aspects of criminal procedure from pre-arrest through post-conviction and habeas corpus. Upon completion of course, students should have a thorough and practical understanding of criminal procedure, particularly Tennessee Rules of Criminal Procedure. Cyberlaw Course 386 2- or 3-hour elective course Cyberlaw introduces students to the criminal and civil laws governing computer networks. Following a brief survey of the infrastructural regulation of the Internet, this course emphasizes the practical application of the major federal statutes governing online activity. The course focuses on the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, and other significant computer crime provisions. The course also examines the scope of the Fourth Amendment in an online setting. Time permitting, the course may cover the legal issues involved in virtual property in virtual worlds, challenges posed by encryption, and copyleft software licensing. Prerequisites (Recommended): Criminal Procedure I and Copyright Debtor-Creditor Law Course 327 3-hour elective course This course provides an introduction to state and federal debt collection and avoidance laws with heavy emphasis on the consumer portions of the United States Bankruptcy Code. It is recommended, but not required that students complete Secured Transactions before attempting this course. Decedents' Estates Course 213 3-hour required course Coverage includes intestate succession, wills, and trusts. Objectives include mastery of fundamental principles under the Uniform Probate Code, the Tennessee Code, and case law. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Discovery Course 377 2-hour skills course This course covers the pre-trial practices used by one party to obtain facts and information about a case from another party in order to assist the party's preparation for trial. Students study depositions, interrogatories, production of documents, requests for admissions, and other pre-trial discovery practices. The course is hands-on and requires students to draft pleadings, conduct discovery activities, and make a number of motions. The course places particular emphasis on electronic discovery and discusses counsel's duty to properly identify, preserve, collect, review, and produce electronically stored information (ESI), as well as on the basic technological knowledge litigation counsel should possess. The course covers the growing case law in the area and prepares students through exercises in mock information technology interviews, depositions, and exercises in proper written discovery practice as they relate to electronic discovery. The course satisfies the upper-level skills requirement. Divorce Law Practicum Course 305 3-hour skills course The Divorce Law Practicum is a semester-long course designed to convey the essential principals, skills, and values that a lawyer must embrace and master in order to provide competent counsel in the practice of divorce law. Working in the context of a simulated case file and related mock writing and advocacy opportunities, students will consider the potential effects of the substantive law, procedural rules and ethical guidelines, as well as the accepted customs and practices of lawyers. Designed for students who have completed the fundamental Family Law survey course, the 3-hour Divorce Law Practicum will closely examine the primary areas of divorce practice. Civil Procedure and Family Law is a required prerequisite or a concurrent enrollment in Family Law. While not a prerequisite, students who have completed Evidence and/or Trial Advocacy may be given preference for enrollment. Education/Civil Rights Course 310 3-hour elective course This course explores the intersection of education law and policy as it meets constitutional and equal protection law. Students will be asked to consider policy decisions that impact civil rights in various areas, including student assignment, student admissions, and student instruction, and relate them to disparities across lines of race, ethnicity, gender, native language, and religion. Elder Law Course 374 3-hour elective course Coverage includes ethical issues, age discrimination in employment, income maintenance, health care, long-term care, housing, guardianship, health care decision making, elder abuse and neglect, and basic estate planning. The objective is to provide an overview of principal issues facing the practitioner of Elder Law. Prerequisites (Required): First-year courses. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Elder Health Law Advocacy Clinic Course 535 4-hour skills course The Elder Health Law Advocacy Clinic will provide students with the opportunity to 1) represent low income elderly patients facing legal issues related to health care, such as advanced health care decision making, Medicaid and Medicare eligibility, nursing home quality of care and residents' rights issues, hospice care, and medical futility; 2) engage in collaborative health policy discussions and initiatives with aging network providers; and 3) conduct community education efforts targeting health law issues of concern to the elderly. During orientation, student attorneys will interface with the Long Term Care Ombudsman for West Tennessee and various other aging network health care providers, while also becoming acquainted with pertinent ethical issues, substantive health law issues affecting elders, administrative law relating to TennCare and Medicare appeals and Clinic office procedures. After the initial three weeks of orientation, students will participate in weekly case review meetings with their supervising clinical professor and other class members to discuss issues and progress in their cases, policy initiatives and community education efforts. Students are expected to devote 15 hours per week (which includes seven office hours and a weekly one-hour twenty-minute case review session) on Clinic activities. Prerequisites: Professional Responsibility and Evidence Recommended: Health Law, Administrative Law and Elder Law Elder Law Clinic Course 510 4-hour elective course The Elder Law Clinic is a live client clinic, where students will have the opportunity to provide legal representation to actual persons to whom they will owe a professional responsibility. Ideally, each student will represent between 4-6 clients during the semester, with cases ranging from wills, durable powers of attorney for finances, affidavits of heirship, qualified income trusts, and other document preparation, to consumer protection, contract matters, financial exploitation, governmental benefits, housing and real property law, custody, adoption, and uncontested divorce. Depending on their caseload, students will have the opportunity to develop skills in interviewing, factual development, legal research and writing, case management, problem solving, community legal education, client counseling and negotiation and should expect some litigation and courtroom experience. Prerequisites: Professional Responsibility and Evidence Recommended: Decedents' Estates and Elder Law Employee Benefits Course 371 3-hour elective course In 2005, United Airlines terminated its four employee pension plans, with court permission, setting off the largest pension default in the three decades of government guaranteed pensions. In 2006, Hewlett-Packard, General Motors Corp., Alcoa Inc., IBM Corp., Verizon Communications Inc. and Sprint Nextel Corp. were among U.S. companies that reduced pension liabilities by freezing their defined benefit plans. Also in 2006, in response to the collapse of Enron, WorldCom and Tyco, in addition to numerous corporate bankruptcies, Congress passed 900 pages of new pension legislation, entitled the Pension Protection Act of 2006, the most sweeping legislation since the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). Currently, and for the past several years, employers are and have been cutting health care coverage as insurance costs continue to soar each year. The current year of 2009 is setting up for a “perfect storm” in the pension world as the global bear market combined with strict new funding requirements for pension plans have put many employers in a lose-lose situation with respect to fully funding their pension plans with little Congressional relief in sight. Also, the AIG scandal will undoubtedly spur new legislation related to excessive executive compensation issues. Additionally, approximately 10,000 ERISA cases are filed in federal court every year. With employee benefits issues, laws, and regulations changing so rapidly and at the forefront of the news, business and legal worlds, employee benefits law has become one of the fastest growing and most critical areas of the law today. Employee benefits issues affect not just traditional “pension” lawyers but also affect the practices of many practicing lawyers, including the corporate lawyer, the domestic relations lawyer, the litigation lawyer, the estate planning lawyer and the general practitioner. This course will provide an introduction to ERISA-governed employee benefit plans, welfare benefit plans, and executive compensation plans. It will be an applied problem method of instruction with emphasis on questions, issues and problems involving employee benefit plans likely to arise in a general litigation or business transaction practice. Environmental Law Course 328 3-hour elective course This survey course provides a broad, practical understanding of several important federal environmental statutes and related case law. The course is designed to introduce students to the variety of environmental challenges addressed by environmental laws, the difficult policy issues surrounding environmental problems, the legal complexities of environmental regulatory and administrative schemes, and issues associated with compliance and enforcement. The course focuses on the following federal acts: the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Estate and Gift Tax Course 335 3-hour elective course A study of Federal Estate &amp; Gift Taxation through an examination of the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, revenue rulings and case law. The object is to gain a working knowledge of the law. Estate Planning Course 329 2-hour elective course Analysis of all aspects of Wills, probate procedures, trusts, Living Wills, Guardianships, Durable Powers of Attorney, Irrevocable Trusts, Estate Tax savings techniques, generation skipping techniques, life insurance in estate planning and probate avoidance techniques. Prerequisites (Required): Estate and Gift Tax and Decedents' Estates Evidence Course 221 4-hour required course Considers the presentation of and admissibility of factual information in the trial of a case: including the determination of relevance; proof of writings and other real evidence; qualification, examination and impeachment of witnesses; privileges; opinion testimony; and the application of the hearsay rule. Emphasis is on the Federal Rules of Evidence. Externships Fair Employment Practices Course 330 3-hour elective course Focuses on statutes banning discrimination in employment and other fair employment issues. Federal and state laws dealing with discrimination on the basis of race, sex, age, religion, disability, and national origin will be examined. Questions regarding affirmative action and "reverse discrimination" will be discussed. The course will also look at the recent erosion of the employment at will doctrine and a variety of special employment-related topics. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Family Law Course 331 3-hour practice foundation menu course Bar Course This is a survey course in Family Law that focuses primarily on marriage, divorce, and issues related to dissolution of a marriage. There is an emphasis on Tennessee law. Prerequisite (Required): Constitutional Law Family Law Seminar Course 421 2-hour research/writing course This seminar examines current topics in family law with an emphasis on reproductive rights, the establishment of the parent-child relationship, and the evolving definition of family. Students will write and present a substantial, publishable quality paper. This seminar satisfies the Advanced Research/Writing requirement. Prerequisites (Required): Constitutional Law and Family Law Federal Courts Course 333 3-hour elective course This course addresses the constitutional and statutory provisions, as well as the judicially-created doctrines, that shape and limit the role that federal courts play in our system of government. It pays particular attention to issues implicating the separation of powers and federalism and to contending visions of the functions federal courts should perform in American society. Selected topics include the nature of the federal judicial function, standing and justiciability doctrines, congressional control of federal court jurisdiction, Supreme Court review of state court decisions and the relationship between state and federal law, the federal question jurisdiction of the federal district courts, judicial abstention doctrines and the power of federal courts to enjoin state court proceedings, and state sovereign immunity from suit in federal and state court. Prerequisite (Required): Civil Procedure and Constitutional Law Federal Discrimination Seminar Course 444 2-hour elective course This seminar looks at current topics in federal discrimination law. Topics include disparate impact analysis, affirmative action, gay rights, voting rights issues, and others. Reading assignments are included in a packet provided by the professor and average 30-40 pages per week. The packet includes excerpts from cases, law review articles, congressional testimony, and newspaper and magazine articles, as well as several short writing exercises. Students will write one 25-page research paper, and present that paper in a class toward the end of the semester. This course satisfies the Advanced Research/Writing requirement. Food and Drug Law Course 388 3-hour elective course The primary focus of this class will be on the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act generally and the FDA, in particular. The course covers such contemporary issues as protecting against unsafe or mislabeled food, controlling carcinogens, color additives, expediting approval of AIDS and cancer drugs, assuring the safety of prescription drugs before and after marketing, importing drugs from abroad, switching drugs from prescription to nonprescription status, balancing the benefits and risks of breast implants, the compassionate use of experimental products, regulating complex new medical device technology, control of such biotechnology techniques, requiring adequate consumer and professional labeling for FDA-regulated products, and the relationship among international, federal and state regulatory enforcement. There are no prerequisites, but Administrative Law is recommended. Franchising Law Course 706 2-hour elective course The impact of franchising is very significant, as franchised businesses contribute to over 11% of all private sector economic output, create over 15% of all private sector jobs, and account for approximately 3.4% of the gross domestic product of the United States. With over 3,000 franchise businesses and 900,000 franchise establishments, there are nearly 9.5 million jobs in franchised businesses in our country. It is most likely that practicing attorneys will have some meaningful involvement with franchising throughout their careers. This course will cover all relevant aspects of US franchise law, including: its history; the impact of trademark , trade secret, and antitrust laws on franchising; the governing federal and state registration laws; the unique franchise sales process and required documentation; and the typical contractual, business and real-life issues that arise with franchising. The focus of the course will be on the practical side of providing legal assistance to franchisors and franchisees. The intent of this course is to prepare the participants to be able to render meaningful and proper advice to clients in this highly regulated and pitfall-ridden business arena. Along with providing a basic understanding of the entire franchise process, this course will offer specific guidance on gauging the viability of franchise opportunities, gleaning relevant information from franchise disclosure documents, negotiation of franchise agreements and related documents, and handling the day-to-day issues most common to franchise relationships. There are no prerequisites for this course and no prior experience in Intellectual Property is required. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; General Session Civil Litigation Clinic Course 511 4-hour skills course In the Civil Litigation Clinic, University of Memphis law students represent indigent clients in a variety of housing, consumer protection cases pending in the General Sessions, Circuit, and Chancery courts of Shelby County. Under the direct supervision of licensed faculty, students engage in the examination of law and advocacy, actively navigating ethical, substantive, procedural, and evidentiary issues in the context of case work, classroom seminars, in-class case rounds and presentations, weekly case team meetings, and group and individual simulations. Through the vehicle of live-client representation, students make continuous use of the essential skills they will utilize to address the ever-changing needs of clients upon graduation, including interviewing, counseling, analysis and evolution of case theory, legal research and drafting, conducting formal discovery and informal fact investigation, problem solving, negotiation, written and oral advocacy, pretrial practice, and trial practice. Emphasis is additionally placed on allowing students in the Civil Litigation Clinic to reflect upon their experiences in light of issues such as rapport-building and control in the lawyer-client relationship, professionalism, diversity, the role of lawyers in social change work, and other questions related to lawyering and society. Students also gain continuous exposure to collaborative lawyering, working together with supervising attorneys and class members to confront and address the many case, office, and time management issues arising in their representations. This course satisfies the upper-level skills requirement. Gun Violence &amp; the Law Seminar Course 494 2-hour research/writing course This seminar covers a variety of topics related to the law of firearms violence, including the meaning of the Second Amendment, the history of the right to bear arms in civilized societies, modern gun control laws, civil litigation against the firearms industry, cultural factors affecting gun violence, and gun laws in other nations. This course satisfies the Advanced Research/Writing requirement. Health Care Insurance &amp; Regulation Seminar Course 434 2-hour research/writing course In this seminar, students will engage in detailed investigation of how the health care system is designed post-enactment of the Patient Protection &amp; Affordable Care Act ("ACA"). It will use ACA as a vehicle through which to gain deeper understanding of how health insurance is structured in the U.S., and how ACA impacts (or is likely to impact) the "experience" of health care, at an individual or population – and private or public – level via federal and downstream state law and regulation. The primary intent will be to equip students with the knowledge to better understand the short- and long-term implications of ACA vis-à-vis the health care "system," and the skills to analyze policy developments to more effectively practice in an ever-changing health law landscape. Students will be expected to write a substantial, publishable quality paper, and to present their work to the class. This seminar will satisfy the Advanced Research/Writing requirement. Prerequisite (Recommended): Health Law (can be taken concurrently) Health Law I Course 336 3-hour elective course This course will provide broad coverage of health law issues, with a focus on individual experiences with the health care system, and patient-clinician and patient-institution interactions. It serves as a foundation for students interested in learning more about health law generally. Topics include access to health care and the "duty to treat" (and limitations thereon), licensing of health professionals and institutions, the patient-professional relationship, informed consent and confidentiality, health care professional and institutional liability, and quality in medical institutions. There are no Prerequisites for the class. Health Law II Course 708 2-hour elective course This course does not require math skills or an accounting background. This class will examine how health care is funded through both private and public insurance, including Medicare and Medicaid. The regulation of private health insurance will be reviewed, as the policy questions about addressing access to large uninsured population including EMTALA and the Affordable Care Act. The course will also review the forms and structure of health care enterprises, with a focus on the creation and regulation of tax-exempt organizations. The fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback law and STARK will be also be reviewed. Finally, the course will review how the antitrust laws impact the structure and conduct of health care providers. There are no Prerequisites for the class. Health Policy Practicum Course 705 5-hour skills course The Health Policy Practicum ("Practicum") is an academic year-long offering, i.e., a 2-credit fall and 3-credit spring course, for a total 5-Credit longitudinal experience. In the Practicum, students will work with community partners to address a real-world policy issue negatively impacting health. Specific projects may change from year to year, and more may be added or amended, depending on community needs at a given time. Types of projects may include (non-exclusive list, all as relate to health law/policy issues): a literature review and analysis; a needs assessment to develop health policy priorities; an education module on a law/policy issue for non-lawyer audiences; a position paper for a community stakeholder entity; prepared testimony for presentation to a governmental body; a piece of legislation or regulation, or comments to regulation; or an analysis of existing policies to identify gaps, funding needs for effective implementation, necessary adjustments to achieve policy goals, etc. Both the fall and spring terms will include a weekly seminar (1 hour-50 minute) that will focus on building core understanding of legal issues implicated by a given year’s policy project(s), in addition to skills of policy-making and community engagement (fall term), and an opportunity to present work, learn from affected stakeholders and brainstorm options (spring term). Out-of-class work will include drafting exercises and topical research (fall term), and community-based project work under the supervision of a lead Community Supervisor as determined in consultation with Practicum faculty and community partners (spring term). Overarching supervision, and final grade assessment, will reside in Practicum faculty. Students will receive 2 “SKILLS” academic credits for the fall term and 3 “SKILLS” academic credits for the spring term (both terms: E/S/U). Students are required to register for both terms. This course meets the experiential course requirement for students seeking the Health Law Certificate. Prerequisites: Health Law I or Health Law II or Public Health Law. (Recommended: Administrative Law or Legislation (prior to or concurrently).) Health Law Seminar Course 400 3-hour full year research/writing course In this course, students will write and present a paper on a topic in healthcare law. This seminar will provide students with an opportunity to perform in-depth research and to experience an intensive and supervised writing process in the health law discipline. The purpose of this seminar is to provide each student with writing instruction and exposure to the health law literature. Students have the flexibility to choose from a wide variety of topics but, ultimately, the topic must fall under the umbrella of "health law." Students will also practice writing well by following a strict schedule to organize their thoughts and then learn about critique by presenting their topics to an audience. This seminar takes place across both the fall and spring semesters. The class will meet for 2 hours in the fall and 1 hour in the spring. The fall semester will focus on topic selection, the writing process, and reading health law articles and culminate in a first draft. The second semester will focus on student presentations and revising the first draft. Prerequisite (Required): Must have taken or be currently enrolled in Public Health Law, Health Law I, or Bioethics. Housing Adjudication Clinic Course 501 4-hour skills course Students enrolled in the Housing Adjudication Clinic will have the unique opportunity to study law and lawyering from the standpoint of the administrative law judge rather than that of direct client representative. Working under faculty supervision, students will be assigned to investigate, research, hear, adjudicate, and issue written opinions ruling on administrative appeals involving participants in the Memphis Housing Authority’s Housing Choice Voucher Program who have challenged adverse decisions affecting their public housing assistance. To complement their work as adjudicators, Clinic students will participate in a twice-weekly classroom seminar designed to survey substantive fair housing law, explore administrative law and procedure, provide skills training, and consider issues of ethics and professionalism that arise in the context of the hearings to which they are assigned. This course satisfies the upper-level skills requirement. Immigration Law Course 337 3-hour elective course The subject matter of Immigration Law. OBJECTIVES: To teach concepts fundamental to Immigration Law so that students will understand and be able to apply them to analysis of issues arising in factual settings. Income Tax Course 214 3-hour statutory menu course This course covers concepts of gross income, exclusions from gross income, deductions, capital gains, timing, and tax systems. An important objective of the course is to develop the skill of reading statutes and applicable regulations. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Insurance Law Course 339 3-hour elective course This course will focus on traditional insurance law concepts and cutting edge legal issues affecting insurance law theory and practice. The course work will include an examination of insurance history and fundamental concepts, insurance contract law, government regulation, insurable interest requirements, limitations of risk, defenses and duties of policy holders after loss. The course will include a review of property, liability, life, health, disability, automobile and other forms of insurance coverage. We will spend a considerable time with insurance coverage that attorneys will be called upon to consider and understand in most all types of practices. Intellectual Property Survey Course 395 3-hour elective course The Intellectual Property Survey course covers the basics of intellectual property law including trade secret, copyright, trademark, and patent laws. The course will involve both the transactional and litigation sides of intellectual property. There will be both theoretical and real world application to intellectual property issues. International Business Transactions Course 399 3-hour elective course This course consists of two parts. The first part introduces the student to the environments within which transnational business operations take place. Within this framework a basic introduction to Public International Law will be followed by a concise examination of the leading institutions of the World Economic Environment such as the World Trade Organization and the International Monetary Fund. On the transactional level the corporate actors in the transnational business environment will be introduced focusing on the special role of the multinational enterprise. A comparative law overview of transnational legal practice opportunities will lead to a more comprehensive discussion on international litigation strategies covering forum selection, choice of law, international commercial arbitration, and other practical private international law problems. The second part of this course presents problem exercises in transnational business, such as drafting and consulting on transnational sales, distributorship agreements, and licensing agreements. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; International Human Rights Law Course 306 2-hour elective course This course provides an introduction to international and regional laws and mechanisms for the protection and promotion of human rights. Students will begin by studying the history and evolution of basic principles of international human rights law. Through a critical examinination of the development and effectiveness of international and regional international human rights mechanisms, students will have the opportunity to explore contemporary human rights issues in more detail. Selected topics may include: The Role of Non-governmental Organizations, Socio-Economic Rights Litigation, Gender, Humanitarian Intervention and Refugees. International Law Course 340 3-hour elective course Introduction to public international law that also explores selected private transnational legal problems. Covers the nature and sources of international law, jurisdiction of states over persons and territory, recognition of states and governments, governmental immunities, the law of treaties and principles of state responsibility. Special emphasis is on the study of the international protection of human rights, legal controls on the use of force and selected transnational economic problems. Judicial Externship Course 617 2-hour elective course The principal goal is to provide students with an opportunity to learn about the role that judges play in our judicial systems and the responsibilities that lawyers discharge in that system. Moreover, the program is intended to foster student research and writing skills; to facilitate student exposure to lawyering skills and values; to foster student oral advocacy skills through their participation in court activities and proceedings and close working relationships with judges; to give students an opportunity to study legal process through their participation in the work of a legal institution; and to expose students to issues of professional responsibility within the context of actual courtroom experiences and lawyer practices. This course satisfies the upper-level skills requirement. Jurisprudence Course 342 2-hour elective course General survey of jurisprudential subjects, including stare decisis, methods of legal analysis; methods of judging; legislative intent; Natural Law; Positive Law; Legal Realism; Sociological Jurisprudence; Critical Legal Studies; Feminist Jurisprudence; and Critical Race Theory. Juvenile Law and Practice Course 303 3-hour skills course This is a three credit survey course that covers doctrine, practice, and procedure regarding children's rights, juvenile delinquency, juvenile dependency (abuse, neglect, and abandonment), and termination of parental rights. Because the right to family integrity on the civil side and a child's potential loss of liberty on the delinquency side serve as bedrocks for juvenile statutes and rules, the course, of necessity, dwells on constitutional law principles. Practice in Tennessee courts will be highlighted. Students will be required to observe three hours of proceedings in the Juvenile Court of Memphis and Shelby County and write a reflection paper. During the first five weeks of the semester, doctrine and drafting will be emphasized. During the last two weeks of the semester, trial skills will be emphasized, and students will be expected to conduct a mock juvenile trial. Students will be graded on two written drafting exercises, their performance in the mock trial, and on a one (1) hour closed book examination. Labor Relations Course 343 3-hour elective course This course is a study of labor relations law, with a special focus on the federal statutes. Primary emphasis is placed on union organization, employer responses, union economic weapons (strikes, picketing, and boycotts), internal union discipline of members, collective bargaining, and the role of the National Labor Relations Board. The problems involved in balancing the interests of management and labor, the individual and the group, and the state and federal governments will also be discussed. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Land Use Law Course 344 2-hour elective course Land use law governs the way our cities are developed and redeveloped. This two-hour course will focus on land use as practiced in Tennessee by examining pertinent case law, statutes and legal concepts related to the fields of planning, zoning and subdivision regulations. The course will also cover federal statutes that affect local zoning, including Section 1983 of the Civil Rights Act of 1871, the Civil Rights Act of 1968 and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, as well as pertinent sections of the United States Constitution and the seminal opinions they have promulgated. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Law Review Courses 912, 913, 914 3- or 4-hour research/writing course The University of Memphis Law Review is the law school’s scholarly journal, publishing articles written by law professors, judges, and practitioners, as well as student “Notes” written by members of the law review. Students serving as staff members or editors earn credit writing their notes, editing and cite-checking articles, and fulfilling the other obligations necessary to publish 4 issues of the law review each year. Students are selected to become law review staff members through a “write-on” competition held in the summer after the first year of law school that considers their performance on the write-on competition paper, their score on a legal citation style (i.e., Bluebook) test, and other factors. In their second year of law school, staff members interested in becoming editors may apply in the Spring semester for positions on the editorial board. A minimum GPA of 2.50 is required to participate in and remain eligible for law review. Successful completion of the Law Review Note satisfies the research/writing requirement. Legal Argument and Appellate Practice Course 347 2- or 3-hour research/writing OR skills course This is a practical course which focuses on the skills involved in taking a first appeal. Students will work with a real trial transcript. The class will focus on identifying issues for appeal and will cover topics such as preservation of error, plain error, harmless error, and standards of review. Students will write a brief to a court of appeals and argue the appeal orally. This course will satisfy the upper-level skills requirement or the research/writing requirement, but not both. Legal Drafting: Litigation Drafting C ourse 513 2-hour skills course This course is designed to provide second- and third- year law students with the skills and knowledge necessary to draft client letters, pleadings, and motions involved in civil litigation. Students will be challenged to refine their writing skills and strategic analysis of pre-trial issues in this practical based course. This course satisfies the upper-level skills requirement. Legal Drafting: Contracts Course 597 2-hour skills course This course is a transactional drafting course for second- and third- year law students. The course is designed to provide students with the analytic skill of translating the business deal into contract concepts, and an understanding of the rules and techniques for good transactional drafting to enhance clarity and avoid ambiguity. Students will be challenged to learn to think like lawyers and develop skills in translating that thinking into the contracts they draft, utilizing a variety of contracts and transactional practice areas. This course satisfies the upper-level skills requirement. Legal Ethics Seminar Course 447 2-hour research/writing course This seminar gives the students an opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of selected issues in professional responsibility and professionalism. Coverage will include confidentiality, conflicts of interest, litigation tactics, perjury, the client-lawyer relationship, counseling clients, competence, admission to practice, professional discipline, delivery of legal services, and legal education. Students research and write a paper on a selected professional responsibility or professionalism issue. This course satisfies the Advanced Research/Writing requirement. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Legal Methods I Course 113 3-hour required course Objective: To produce competent practitioners using a guided approach to legal research, legal drafting, and legal analysis; emphasis on substance and form of objective legal research memos, the process of legal research, and the analysis of legal issues. Legal Methods II Course 123 2-hour required course The objective of this course is to produce competent advocates. LM II covers persuasive advocacy. Building on LM I's emphasis on research, analysis, and objective writing, students further refine these skills by drafting a persuasive trial memo or appellate brief and arguing before a mock court. Legislation Course 348 2- or 3-hour elective course Many law school courses focus on judge-made law and appellate opinions. The vast majority of American law, however, is enacted law—statutory and regulatory law. This course is designed to teach students how legislatures enact law. Studying Article I of the U.S. Constitution as well as House and Senate standing rules, students explore how Congress is structured and how it operates to make law and policy. The course also discusses courts' relationship with statutory law and the canons of statutory construction. Finally, the course teaches students how to draft legislation—at the end of the term the class will sit as a mock legislature debating bills drafted by students. Mediation Clinic Course 502 4-hour skills course Students in the University of Memphis Mediation Clinic will study mediation from the inside-out, analyzing in detail the communicative, strategic, and ethical dimensions of specific interventions that mediators make in the context of particular cases. The Clinic will primarily focus on the students as the mediators, but the students will also be asked to consider the issues from other points of view: as the disputant, as an attorney representing a client in mediation, and in the capacity of advising an organizational client about dispute resolution options. The Mediation Clinic has four primary components: (1) The training that is required by Tennessee Supreme Court Rule 31 before one may become listed as a Rule 31 Mediator; (2) Ongoing student observation of mediations conducted by Rule 31 Mediators in General Sessions Court cases, Federal Court cases, and EEOC administrative proceedings; (3) Student participation as co-mediator with Rule 31 Mediators in Shelby County General Sessions Court cases; and (4) Weekly classroom seminar and case rounds designed to give students further training and feedback throughout the course of the semester. Medical-Legal Partnership Clinic Course 595 4-hour skills course Housed in both devoted hospital space and the law school Clinic offices, law students participating in the MLP Clinic will provide legal assistance to the low-income patients of Le Bonheur Children's Hospital under the supervision of experienced MLP faculty, lawyers, and healthcare providers. Among other case-related assignments, MLP Clinic students will conduct intake interviews, develop case strategies, conduct legal research, prepare legal documents, counsel clients, and provide representation in court and administrative proceedings pursuant to applicable student practice rules. Among other areas of focus, it is anticipated that the MLP Clinic may assist clients in cases involving housing and landlord-tenant issues, public benefits, public and private health insurance, wills and health power of attorneys, guardianships, and consumer and educational services. To complement their casework, Clinic students will participate in a weekly classroom session designed to explore the legal work they will be performing, the legal, policy, and ethical issues that affect patients' health, and the ways that health outcomes and health care access for low-income children can be enhanced by bringing health and legal professionals together. Throughout their Clinic semester, students will have the opportunity to work collaboratively with the faculty and staff of Le Bonheur Children's Hospital and to participate in joint class sessions with medical students and students from other health disciplines. Mental Health Law Course 394 3 -hour elective course This course begins with a discussion of mental disorders from the medical perspective. Next, attention is turned to the role of mental health experts in legal matters, with special emphasis on that to which they can and cannot testify and when a defendant is entitled to the assistance of an expert. In this area, many of the cases involve the insanity defense, including those with the death penalty at stake. The focus then turns to civil commitment, which is the largest part of the course. In short, a person can be involuntarily hospitalized if he or she has a mental illness and as a result of that mental illness is either dangerous to himself/herself or others. Both the substantive and procedural aspects of civil commitment are covered. To see these in practice, students have the opportunity to observe civil commitment hearings, which are closed to the public. Some time is also spent on the issue of competency and the appointment of a guardian or conservator. Finally, students examine what mental issues are required to be disclosed on the Tennessee Bar Application, and the consequences of those disclosures. Mental Health Law Seminar Course 402 3-hour research/writing course Students will write and present a paper of publishable quality on a topic involving mental health law, the specific topic to be selected by the student with the approval of the instructor. Students will perform in-depth research and will participate in an intensive, supervised writing process. Significant time will be spent on instruction regarding academic writing and in editing the student's own work and, occasionally, the work of other students. In addition, the seminar will provide an opportunity to examine current topics in mental health law through reading assignments coupled with rigorous analysis and vigorous discussion amongst the seminar students under the guidance of the instructor. Approximately ten reading assignments will provide the material for analysis and discussion. Reading assignments will comprise excerpts from cases, law review articles and other periodicals, and newspapers and magazines. The seminar will take place across both the fall and spring semesters. The class will meet for two hours each week in the fall semester and for one hour each week in the spring semester with a final, overall grade being assigned at the end of the spring semester. The fall semester will focus on topic selection, the writing process, editing, and the reading assignments, and will culminate in a high-quality first draft of the paper. The second semester will focus on revising the paper and also will involve making a presentation to the seminar class based upon the paper. Papers that earn a grade of C or better will satisfy the Advanced Research/Writing Requirement. Mergers &amp; Acquisitions Course 301 2- or 3-hour elective This course introduces students to the legal principles that underlie mergers and acquisitions. The advantages and disadvantages of various acquisition forms, such as mergers, asset acquisition, stock purchases, and tender offers are discussed. Significant focus is also given to the fiduciary duties and other obligations of company boards of directors, the role of shareholder voting, externalities arising from some merger/acquisition transactions, state anti-takeover statutes, disclosure requirements arising from the securities laws, and the effects of mergers and acquisitions on other constituencies (beyond shareholders and management). Prerequisite: Business Organizations. Moot Court Course 811 1- or 2-hour elective Students can receive one or two credits for Moot Court by successfully completing intra-school moot court or mock trial competitions. A student who successfully completes two competitions is eligible for one credit. A student who successfully completes four competitions is eligible for two credits. Students generally register for credits in their final semester of study. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; National Security Law Course 308 2-hour elective course This course is designed for upper level students, particularly those interested in employment opportunities in the significant number of positions with the U.S. Government, U.S. Military, or private practice. Major areas to be covered will include the constitutional and legislative framework for Presidential power and the powers of Congress, using armed force abroad, detaining "enemy combatants" (terrorist suspects), intelligence gathering, Homeland Security, and future threats to national security. Significant current events also will influence the scope of the course schedule. Non-Profit Organization Tax Course 370 3-hour elective course This course covers the state law requirements regarding the organization and operation of nonprofit organizations. In addition, a heavy emphasis is placed on the federal income tax treatment of nonprofit organizations, including the requirements for obtaining and maintaining tax-exempt status, the distinction between a public charity and a private foundation, the private foundation excise taxes, and the unrelated business income tax. Prerequisites (Required): Income Tax. Prerequisites (Recommended): Business Organizations. Partnership Tax Course 352 3-hour elective course The course focuses on the federal income tax aspects of partnership formation, operations, sales and exchanges of partnership interests, operating distributions, liquidations and S Corporations. Prerequisite (Required): Basic Income Tax Prerequisite (Recommended): Corporate Tax Patent Law Course 390 3-hour elective course The nature of patentable subject matter in the U.S. and the statutory requirements of utility, novelty, and nonobviousness are examined in detail. Students also consider the process of obtaining and enforcing patent rights. Such consideration includes an overview of the disclosure, enablement and claim requirements for a patent application, as well as the scope of protection granted to the owner of an issued patent. Remedies for patent infringement as well as defenses are also covered. A technical background is not required for this course. Prerequisites (Required): Property I &amp; II - Courses 115 &amp; 125 Prerequisites (Recommended): Intellectual Property Survey - Course 395 &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Pre-Trial Litigation Practice Course 551 3-hour skills course An intensive simulation-course designed for students who plan to be civil litigators. Through a case file assigned at the beginning of the semester, students are encouraged to explore how lawyers strategically use each step in the pretrial litigation process to advance their clients’ interests. Among other things, students will analyze the law, investigate the facts of the assigned case file, draft relevant pleadings, prepare and respond to discovery, take and defend depositions, brief and argue a pretrial motion and engage in settlement negotiations with an opposing party, all while maintaining client relations and expectations. Prerequisites (Required): Civil Procedure &amp; Evidence Privacy Law Seminar Course 401 2-hour research/writing course This advanced torts seminar focuses on the four privacy torts: appropriation, intrusion, public disclosure of private facts, and false light. It explores not only the history, doctrinal requirements, and application of the privacy torts, but uses them as a vehicle and framework for exploring privacy as a societal value and individual right. Problems in Bankruptcy Course 354 2-hour elective course Addressing, discussing, and solving selective bankruptcy problems involving, for example, home mortgages, trustee's avoidance powers, relief from stay, plan confirmation utilizing applicable Code and Rule provisions and decisional law. Products Liability Course 357 2-hour elective course A complete review of the current status of product liability law, including an examination of the bases of liability (warranty, misrepresentation, negligence and strict liability); issues relating to proximate cause; issues related to industry liability, market share and enterprise liability; a review of defenses available (comparative negligence, assumption of the risk, product misuse; product alteration, governmental standards pre-emption, statutes of limitations and statutes of repose, learned intermediary doctrine, idiosyncratic reaction); a review of damages issues peculiarly related to product liability law; evidentiary problems such as those related to expert witnesses and spoliation; an examination on the type of entities who are liable under presently existing product liability law (employers, lessors, bailors, franchisors, used product sellers, real estate vendors, landlords and personal service providers); and an examination in detail of the Tennessee Product Liability Act of 1978. Professional Responsibility Course 224 2-hour required course Examines the cannons, ethical considerations and disciplinary rules of the ABA Model Code of Professional Responsibility and the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct. This course may be taken in the 2L or 3L year. Property I Course 115 3-hour required course Coverage includes personal property, private interests in land, and the sale of land. Objectives include mastery of principal concepts of acquisition, retention, and transfer of property rights. Property II Course 125 3-hour required course Coverage includes personal property, private interests in land, and the sale of land. Objectives include mastery of principal concepts of acquisition, retention, and transfer of property rights. Public Health Law Course 702 3-hours elective course This course will offer a survey perspective of key issues at the intersection of public health (as distinguished from individual health or clinical treatment) and the law. It will examine the complex interplay between government's role in protecting and promoting population health, and individual liberties, privacy, commercial speech, and property rights. It will begin by discussing the foundations of legal involvement in public health and traditional government powers (e.g., infectious disease control and surveillance, vaccination, food and water safety, environmental safety). A substantial amount of time will then be spent on legal, policy, and ethical issues raised by evolving notions of those governmental powers, including the power of government (including through use of tort law) to promote "healthy" behaviors (e.g., anti-obesity efforts), and to regulate "non-valued" behaviors (e.g., smoking, alcohol use; decisions not to be vaccinated or comply with infection control). A small part of the course will also touch on recent efforts related to bioterrorism, responses to natural disasters, and public health genetics. While US-focused, there will be opportunities to discuss global public health. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Realty Transactions Course 358 2-hour elective course This course covers transactional aspects of the buying; selling and financing of real property; professional responsibility problems; brokerage law; contracts; real estate closings; title examinations and title insurance; deeds of trust and mortgages; foreclosures; bankruptcy; income tax implications; and environmental issues. Remedies Course 368 3-hour elective course Bar course This course studies the nature and measurement of the judicial remedies to which a party is entitled after establishing that a substantive right has been violated. It focuses on Coercive Remedies (injunctions, specific performance), Damages (compensatory, punitive) and Restitution. Research I Course 711 1-hour elective Independent Research is intended to permit students with an avid interest in a particular topic to explore that topic at length under the supervision of a faculty member. Accordingly, it is contemplated that students will generate the topic based upon the student’s interests. In other words, it is not the purpose of Independent Study to enable a student to fill a gap in the student’s schedule or to satisfy graduation requirements. Independent Study does not satisfy the advanced writing requirement, in whole or in part. Students may enroll in Independent Research for not more than one credit hour. In addition, permission of a supervising faculty member (who shall be a full-time, tenured or tenure-track faculty member) is required, as is approval by the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. No more than a total of 8 credit hours may be earned by completion of any combination of the following: Externships, Law Review, Moot Court and Independent Research. All papers must comply with the terms set forth in the Requirements for Student Research Papers and any successor publication or communication. Sales Course 359 3-hour statutory menu course Bar course This course covers Article 2, and to some intent, Articles 2A, 5, and 7. Prerequisites (Recommended): Contracts I and II Secured Transactions Course 222 3-hour statutory menu course General survey of topics relating to the creation, perfection, and priority of security interests, as well as topics relating to the identification of types of collateral and rights upon default. Securities Regulation Course 361 3-hour elective course This course considers federal regulation of the registration, issuance, and trading of securities in national, regional and private markets for securities. Materials in the course will examine the 1933 and 1934 Acts and other federal statutory provisions (for example, The Dodd-Frank Act of 2010) and their effects on markets for issuance and trading of securities. Prerequisites (Recommended): Business Organizations I &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Sports Law Course 372 2-hour elective course This course is designed to introduce students to the legal, business and policy issues and disputes that arise in the world of amateur and professional sports. The course will approach topics from the perspective of various players in the sports industry, such as the sports lawyer, the corporate counselor, the university administration, team management, various sports regulatory bodies, the athletes and even the fans. In addition, we will discuss and dissect current events in the world of sports. Tax Seminar Course 431 2-hour research/writing course Assigned readings on various tax policy topics are discussed in class. In addition, each student prepares a research paper on a selected tax policy topic and presents that paper to the class. To further enhance writing skills, each student edits two other students’ research papers. This course satisfies the Advanced Research/Writing requirement. Prerequisite (Required): Basic Income Tax Tennessee Civil Procedure Seminar Course 429 2-hour research/writing course The Tennessee Civil Procedure Seminar addresses the subject matter jurisdiction of Tennessee’s various courts; judicial jurisdiction with emphasis on Tennessee’s long arm statutes; venue; statutes of limitation and repose; pleadings; pre-trial motion practice; discovery; trial practice including jury selection, opening statements , presentation of evidence and objections under the Tennessee Rules of Evidence, jury instructions, closing arguments, verdicts, and post trial motions; and appeals under the Tennessee Rules of Appellate Procedure. Ethics issues as they relate to Tennessee Civil Procedure will be addressed as will enforcement of judgments. General Sessions Court and Juvenile Court practice. Course materials will be made available on TWEN. Students enrolled in this seminar will prepare original research papers on a topic of Tennessee Civil Procedure, which may include topics regarding civil trial practice, rules of evidence, appellate practice, and ethics, among other topics. It is expected that student papers will be of a quality worthy of publication as a Note in a law review such as the UM Law Review. Students will be expected to prepare initial and final drafts of their papers. Papers that earn a grade of C or better will satisfy the Advanced Research/Writing Requirement. &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Tennessee Constitutional Law Seminar Course 445 2-hour research/writing course This seminar will explore state constitutional doctrine, with an emphasis upon individual rights provisions. While development under the Constitution of Tennessee will be a principal focus, selected issues in other states will be examined as well, as will the methodology of state constitutional analysis. This course satisfies the Research/Writing requirement. Prerequisites (Required): Constitutional Law and Criminal Procedure I Torts I Course 112 3-hour required course Torts addresses civil wrongs, other than breaches of contract, for which the law provides a monetary remedy. Torts I begins with coverage of the basic intentional torts (battery, assault, false imprisonment, intentional infliction of emotional distress, trespass to land, trespass to chattels, and conversion) and the privileges or defenses to the intentional torts. Most of the course, however, is devoted to the broad tort of negligence. Simplistically, negligence law is the study of liability for accidental injuries. Torts II Course 122 3-hour required course Torts II picks up where Torts I leaves off, with further consideration of the tort of negligence. Other topics that may be covered include strict liability (of which products liability is the largest component), wrongful death, tort damages, and defamation and privacy. Prerequisite (Required): Torts I Trade Secrets Course 707 2- or 3-hours elective course Trade secrets are one of the four core areas of intellectual property law and the one most likely to be encountered in legal practice by non-specialists, as trade secret issues arise in areas as diverse as employment law, business formation, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, franchising, venture financing, development of new technologies, and contractual relationships of all sorts between competitors, joint venturers and vendors. This course will cover the laws protecting trade secrets and confidential business information, including the various related doctrines that govern the ownership and use of information between employers and employees, fiduciary duties, non-compete agreements, and assignment agreements concerning new inventions and discoveries. The focus of the course will be on the Uniform Trade Secrets Act now in effect in almost every state (including Tennessee), as well as the federal Economic Espionage Act. The "hot" topics in current trade secret practice, including what does and does not constitute an actual trade secret, the doctrine of inevitable disclosure, and real-world contractual restrictions on employee mobility through non-competes and non-solicitation covenants, will be covered in depth. Alongside this practice-oriented approach, the course will also explore certain public policy concerns, including the effect of trade secret laws on employee rights and on technological innovation. There are no prerequisites for this course and no prior experience in Intellectual Property is required. Trademarks Course 366 2-hour elective course Considers legal and policy problems in the law of trademarks through case analysis and examination of the Lanham Act. Topics include marks subject to protection, the federal registration process, likelihood of confusion, 'palming off,' and remedies. Prerequisite (Recommended): IP Survey Trial Advocacy Course 516 3-hour skills course Trial Advocacy is a simulation course wherein students will learn about the various phases of jury trial in civil and criminal contexts, as well as the differences between jury and non-jury trials. Students will simulate jury selection, opening statements, direct and cross examinations, and closing arguments, and will learn how to introduce exhibits, present expert testimony, raise and respond to objections, and deal with problem witnesses. Students will have weekly simulation assignments and, in most sections, will conduct a full trial at the end of the semester. This course satisfies the upper-level skills requirement. Prerequisite (Required): Evidence, may be taken concurrently Trust Law Course 392 2-hour elective course A comprehensive, theoretical study of the law of trusts, including the history, the necessary elements of a trust and the role of trustees. U.S. Taxation of International Income Course 385 3-hour elective course The course will examine U.S. tax rules applicable to business and investment activities of foreign individuals and corporations in the United States (“inbound transactions”) and U.S. tax rules applicable to U.S. taxpayers who invest and conduct business abroad (“outbound transactions”. Specific topics will include sourcing and characterization of items of income and deductions, the branch profits tax, foreign investment in U.S. real estate, the foreign tax credit, property transfers, controlled foreign corporations, and U.S. tax treaties. Federal Taxation of Business Entities is a prerequisite but it may be taken concurrently. Prerequisite (Required): Basic Income Tax Prerequisite (Recommended): Partnership Tax Voting Rights &amp; Election Law Course 704 2-hour elective course Voting Rights &amp; Election Law covers the law involving voting rights, election administration, and campaign finance. Topics covered will include one-person, one-vote; political and racial gerrymandering; alternative electoral systems; election challenges and recounts; voter enfranchisement and disenfranchisement; and the regulation of campaign finance. Both constitutional and statutory issues will be covered. White Collar Crime Course 703 2-hour elective course This course will introduce students to the scope and significance of white collar crime in the United States and educate students about the substance and procedure of federal white collar crime prosecutions, with an emphasis on health care crimes. Students who take the course will become familiar with fundamental procedures of federal criminal investigation, prosecution and sentencing. Substantively, they will develop an understanding of the most frequently used federal white collar criminal statutes and those statutes most often used to prosecute health care crimes. Prerequisite (Recommended): Criminal Procedure &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Electives &amp; Specialized Areas of Study Memphis Law's curriculum provides many elective courses which cover a wide range of substantive legal knowledge and lawyering skills. The upper level curriculum permits students to take courses in specialty areas of law, develop fundamental lawyering skills, and concentrate their legal education in particular areas of interest. These elective courses are listed by basic specialty areas. Commercial Law Bankruptcy Externship Commercial Paper Debtor-Creditor Problems in Bankruptcy Sales Constitutional Law Civil Rights Education &amp; Civil Rights Federal Courts A Federal Courts B Tennessee Constitutional Law Seminar Corporate/Business Law Antitrust Business Organizations II Mergers &amp; Acquistions Securities Regulation Secured Transactions Unfair Trade Practices Domestic Relations Law Child and Family Litigation Clinic Divorce Law Practicum Family Law Juvenile Law Juvenile Law and Practice Estate Planning and Probate Law Elder Law Elder Law Clinic Elder Law Seminar Estate and Gift Tax Estate Planning Trust Law Health Law Bioethics and the Law Health Law Health Law Organization, Regulation and Finance Health Law Seminar Law and Medicine Seminar Mental Health Law Intellectual Property Law Copyright Cyber Law Patent Law Sports Law International and Comparative Law Comparative Law Seminar Immigration Law International Business Transactions International Economic Law International Law Jurisprudence, Interdisciplinary Study and Public Policy Education/Civil Rights Federal Discrimination Seminar Gun Control/Gun Rights Seminar Jurisprudence Law and Accounting Law and Economics Legal History Mental Health Law Social Welfare/Poverty Law Seminar Labor and Employment Law Fair Employment Practices Labor Relations NLRB (National Labor Relations Board) Externship Worker's Compensation Lawyering Skills Practice ADR-Labor ADR-Mediation ADR-Negotiation Advanced Appellate Advocacy Appellate Advocacy Business Planning Child and Family Litigation Clinic Criminal Justice Externship Disability Law and Practice Discovery Elder Law Clinic Ethics Seminar General Sessions Civil Litigation Clinic Judicial Externship Juvenile Law and Practice Legal Argument and Appellate Practice Legislation Memphis Area Legal Services Externship Pre-Trial Litigation Tax/Small Business Clinic Trial Advocacy Professional Responsibility Scholarly Writing for Law Students Seminar U.S. Attorney Externship Writing For and About Litigation Procedure/Civil and Criminal Administrative Law Civil Procedure III Conflicts Criminal Procedure II Federal Courts A Federal Courts B Remedies Tennessee Civil Procedure Seminar Real Estate/Environmental Law Environmental Law Environmental Law Seminar Land Use Planning Realty Transactions Taxation Estate and Gift Tax Federal Taxation of Business Enterprises Non-Profit Organization Tax Partnership Tax Tax Seminar Torts/Product Liability Law Insurance Law Privacy Law Seminar Products Liability &lt;BACK TO TOP&gt; Upper-level Research Requirement &amp; Skills Requirement To graduate, a student must successfully complete the upper-level research requirement and the skills requirement. See Academic Regulation 16.c. Skills Course: A student must have two-credits of skills credit to satisfy the Skills Requirement. ADR/Arbitration ADR/Labor ADR/Mediation ADR/Negotiation Advanced Clinic Business Planning Clinic Disability Law &amp; Practice Discovery Divorce Law Practicum Externship Juvenile Law and Practice Legal Argument &amp; Appellate Practice (satisfies either Skills or Upper-level Research/Writing, but not both) Legal Drafting: Litigation Legal Drafting: Contracts Trial Advocacy Appellate Advocacy Advanced Appellate Advocacy Advanced Trial Advocacy Upper-level Research/Writing Requirement: A student must have two-credits of research/writing credits to satisfy the Upper-level Research/Writing Requirement. Successful completion of the Law Review Note Legal Argument &amp; Appellate Practice (satisfies either Skills or Upper-level Research/Writing, but not both) Seminar Current Students Registrar Course &amp; Class Information Course Catalog Curriculum Registration Calendars Degree Programs Part-Time Program Certificate Programs Records Request Graduation Requirements Academic Regulations Student Advising Bar Exam Information Academic Regulations Student Organizations Student Affairs Student Affairs Overview Academic Success Program Bar Exam Information Bookstore Commencement Counseling Services Information Technology Law School ID Cards Locker Rentals Orientation Parking TN Lawyers Assistance Prog. Student Advising Study Abroad Financial Information Pro Bono Honor Council GA Timesheet Form Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/6/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .