#http://www.memphis.edu/admissions/pdfs/checklist-1.pdf
STEP 1 - I j oined the True Blue Tigers Mailing List at: Date joined: I r eviewed my admission My admission My admission - mail is: I s cheduled to tour the U of M campus at: My tour date is: I v iewed the Online Campus Photo Gallery at: I r eviewed the Academic Programs that most interest me at: ugcatalog/collegeprog/ I am m ost interested in: 1 st Choice: 2 nd Choice: I explored the Career Services web site in order to help me make a more informed decision when choosing my major at: I r eviewed the Undergraduate Catalog at: I learned about Campus Life at: STEP 2 - APPLY FOR ADMISSION I r eviewed Admission Requirements at: I r eviewed Residency Information at: I understand that the Office of Admissions will determine my residency based on the complete Tennessee Board of Regents policy at: TBR Residency Policy I know the deadline for submitting an ap plication for: Fall is - July 1 Spring is - December 1 Summer is - May 1 I understand that early submission of my application is encouraged due to the time required for additional documents to be requested and sent to the Office of Admissions. As a resident of Desoto, Marshall, Tunica or Tate County in Mississippi or Crittenden County in Arkansas, I r eviewed information on the Border County Tuition Waiver at: I am ready to apply at: STEP 3 WHAT TO EXPECT I r eceived notification (either e - mail or letter) that my application has been received. Upon receiving an application, I realize it may take 1 - 3 business days before it can be reviewed by the Office of Admissions . I realize that the Office of Admissions requires other documents before a decision can be made regarding my application. I understand that I will receive notification (either e - mail or letter) informing me what is required before an admission decision can be made. I have received my admission decision letter from the Office of Admissions. STEP 4 EARLY CREDIT AND PLACEMENT I have provided all necessary paperwork to the Office of Admission s regarding all dual enrollment, advanced placement, and international baccalaureate courses I have taken while in high school. I realize that the University of Memphis requires all first year students to take the ALEKS Assessment Exam to determine math readiness. I viewed the ALEKS web site at: My exam date is: I understand that as a student who did not take the ACT or SAT entrance exams, I will be required to take the COMPASS test to determine college level readiness and prescribe a course of remedial courses where needed. My exam date is: I have checked the Testing Center web site for additional information at: STEP 5 AFTER ACCEPTANCE I realize that as an applicant for the fall semester, I must attend New Student Orientation . I have checked the Orientation web site for up - to - date information at: I reviewed the Advisor Locator form at: My advisor is: I understand that I must speak with an advisor prior to registration f or information on recommended courses and course prerequisites. I understand that as a fall applicant, I will meet my advisor at Orientation. In order to register for class, I understand that I will need to initialize my U of M account by going to: . My activation account code was provided in my acceptance letter. Once activated, I can register at: . site at: . I will have my ID Card made at Orientation or in room 115 Wilder Tower . I have reviewed the Campus Card web site for information at: I understand p arking i s included in tuition and fees. payment deadlines at: .memphis.edu/ bursar First Time Freshmen - Tiger Tracks Check List ADMISSIONS Wilder Tower Room 101 (901) 678 - 2111 Submit your application for admission early . The deadlines for submitting an application are July 1 for fall, December 1 for spring, and May 1 for summer . You will receive an acknowledgement that we have received your application and fee. You will then be notified of required documents needed to process your application. After all documents are received and the application has been processed, you will be notified of the admission decision. PLACEMENT TESTING Brister Hall Room 112 (901) 678 - 2028 After admission, some students will need to take a placement examination before choosing classes. All students will be required to take the ALEKS Math Placement Test. The appropriate office will contact you if the test is required. ORIENTATION, ADVISING & REGISTRATION Wilder Tower Room 101 (901) 678 - 5513 Registration for new students occurs during New Student Orientation in the summer . Depending on your student classification, you will receive information on University programs, meet with an academic advisor and register for your classes by using myMemphis , the U of M online r egistration s ystem. You will be notified of your options f or registration as soon as you have been admitted. Students who register early get the best schedules, so you should complete all admission requirements as early as possible. NOTE: Transfer credit will be evaluat ed as you schedule your orientation date. All official transcripts must be on file before transfer courses can be evaluated . SCHOLARSHIPS Wilder Tower Room 201 (901) 678 - 3213 Scholarships are awarded based on information provided on the admission application. A separate scholarship application is not required. FINANCIAL AID Wilder Tower Room 103 (901) 678 - 4825 C omplete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) . Check the Financial Aid web site for additional information . FEE PAYMENT Wilder Tower Room 115 (901) 678 - 5579 You will be notified via your U of M email account when your electronic invoice is available online. Check the information. First Time Freshmen - Tiger Tracks Locator