#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/graduate/fellowships.php
Awards, Fellowships, Programs - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact Graduate Program Resources About M.A. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Current Graduate Students Graduate Courses Erasmus Mundus Program Financial aid/awards Bornblum Travel Award Study Abroad Placement How to Apply Other Resources Home Philosophy Graduate Awards, Fellowships, Programs Awards, Fellowships and Programs Departmental Awards For further information regarding deadlines and application guidelines for these awards, please consult the Director of Graduate Studies, Dr. Timothy Roche . Hillary Johnson Memorial Graduate Student Teacher Award This award is in memory of Hillary Johnson, a graduate student in philosophy whose life was tragically ended. The award is given each year to a student who has exhibited exceptional teaching skills. Award recipients receive $300. Graduate Student Departmental Service Award This award is given each year to a graduate student who has exceeded expectations regarding departmental service. Award recipients receive $100. Bornblum Graduate Student Travel Award This award was made possible by the generous donation of David Bornblum and was made in honor of his father Bert Bornblum, a long time friend of the philosophy department. It provides, on a competitive basis, funds to curb the expense of professional travel for graduate students. Further information is available here. Applications for the Bornblum Travel Award should be submitted to Dr. Kas Saghafi. For more information on how to apply, click here . Philosophy Study Abroad Program The Philosophy Department at the University of Memphis is pleased to make available to eligible PhD students the opportunity to study overseas. Given eligibility and approval, the student may study in an approved university or more generally in an approved city for one semester. The program is intended to allow our best students to further their study of Continental or Analytic philosophy by means of attending university philosophy seminars and by means of investigating archives such as those at the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris. Further information is available here. Graduate School Awards For further information regarding deadlines and application guidelines for the following awards, please consult the Graduate School's website. Provost's Predoctoral Diversity Awards These awards are bestowed by at least two departments each year, based on how well various requirements have been met. The amount of the awards vary by discipline and will be renewable for up to five years. All include a tuition scholarship. Each year departments compete based on their record of recruiting and graduating minority students. Students must be nominated by the department in order to apply for these awards. The University of Memphis Society, Inc. Doctoral Fellowship Established by UMS, Inc., this fellowship is awarded annually to a full-time doctoral student based on exceptional academic achievement. The amount varies from year to year. Morton Thesis/Dissertation Awards The result of a generous donation by S. Morgan Morton ('63), these awards honor an outstanding master's and doctoral student whose thesis or dissertation prospectus has been approved by their committee. The thesis award is $500 and the dissertation award is $750. Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Awards These awards are given to two outstanding teaching assistants. Candidates are nominated by faculty, students, alumni, or their respective college dean. Each recipients is awarded $500. Part-Time Master's Fellowships Awarded to entering students, these $1500 awards ($750 per semester) do not include a tuition scholarship. Graduate Program Resources About M.A. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Current Graduate Students Graduate Courses Erasmus Mundus Program Financial aid/awards Bornblum Travel Award Study Abroad Placement How to Apply Other Resources Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .