#https://bf.memphis.edu/bizhub/faq.php
University of Memphis :: BusinessHub Home My Copy Machine(s) Lookup TC&amp;G History FAQs Frequently Asked Questions Copier Vending FAQs When does the collection period open and close for entering meter readings and departmental copy counts? The regularly scheduled window for entering your monthly readings and copy counts will be from the 22nd of each month to midnight on the last day of the month (with exceptions as needed for holiday periods). What is the difference between a shared copy machine and a non-shared copy machine? A shared copy machine is a copier that charges copies to more than one index. In terms of billing, copy counts are submitted each month to assigned Banner index numbers. A non-shared copy machine is one that charges copies to only one index number, and only the total counter from the copy machine is submitted each month. What if I forget to enter my total counter or department copy count? Non-Shared Copy Machines Enter the current total counter during the next collection period, the difference will naturally be caught up and current. Shared Copy Machines You must add any missed counts from past months to the current months count for the department to get caught up. What do I do if I enter the wrong total counter or copy count? You can update your entries any time during the collection period. If the collection period has closed, send an e-mail to servicecenter@memphis.edu to discuss the error and possible solutions for correction. In the e-mail include your name, the Mid South Digital ID found on the machine (i.e. A1234), the index number associated with the mistaken entry and provide a copy of the Total Counter and Counter Per Page printout/reports from the machine. View instructions for printing the reports . When is the FOAP associated with an index charged for the copies? The collection period ends the last day of the month. A billing file is sent to the Accounting Office during the first week of the new month. How do I get a copy machine location updated? If a machine location needs to be updated, please e-mail your name, the Mid South Digital ID of the Machine (i.e. A1234) that can be found on the machine, and the updated location to servicecenter@memphis.edu . How do I update, add or remove a billing index? Send an e-mail request to servicecenter@memphis.edu to request the update. In the e-mail include your name, the Mid South Digital ID, and the billing index you would like added/modified/removed. Can I see the complete total counter history of a copy machine? Yes. The machines you see when you log in are based on the machine(s) assigned to your department and the index number(s) you've provided to the Service Center for billing. If you report for more than one machine, first select a machine and let the page refresh. When you see the Recorded History Lookup channel, select the appropriate index and click on the Lookup History button. The screen refreshes and displays any history in the system for the machine and index combination submitted. Can I see who submitted a meter reading or copy count for my machine? Yes. The machines you see when you log in are based on the machine(s) assigned to your department and the index number(s) you've provided to the Service Center for billing. If you report for more than one machine, first select a machine and let the page refresh. When you see the Recorded History Lookup channel select the appropriate index and click on the Lookup History button. The screen refreshes and displays any history in the system for the machine and index combination submitted. Among the information displayed is the person's user name who entered the meter reading. Can I see everyone in my department who is able to enter meter readings and/or copy counts? Yes. For non-shared, internal department machines: (Select a machine if you have more than one listed) Below the table that displays the short history of the machine is a list of the users who are able to enter meter readings for the machine and billing index. To add or remove users, see the question How do I add or remove someone's access associated with a copy machine? For shared copy machines: If you report for more than one machine, first select a machine and let the page refresh. When you see the Recorded History Lookup channel select the appropriate index and click on the Lookup History button. The screen refreshes and displays a table of information, below the table is the list of users who are able to enter copy counts for the selected machine and billing index. To add or remove users, see the question How do I add or remove someone's access associated with a copy machine? How do I add or remove someone's access associated with a copy machine? Send an e-mail request to servicecenter@memphis.edu and include your name, the Mid South Digital ID found on the machine (i.e. A1234), the index number(s) associated with the user and the user name of the person to add or remove. How do I enter departmental copy counts? Click here for additional instructions for entering_departmental_total_counts_shared . What if I no longer work in the department that the machine belongs to? If you are no longer responsible for a copy machine contact the servicecenter@memphis.edu to be removed as the key operator. Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Logout Last Updated: 06/18/2015 10:37 am