#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/ccfa/art.php
ART - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions ART ART (ART) ART Richard A. Lou, M.F.A., Chair Room 201, Jones Hall Transfer students seeking advanced standing in art are required to submit a portfolio. In addition to specific prerequisites, junior standing or permission of the instructor is a prerequisite for all 3000 and 4000 level courses in the Department of Art. Additional fees are charged for some Art courses. See the online class listings or the Expenses section of the Catalog. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ART 4010-19. Special Topics in Studio Art. (1-3). Topics are varied and in online class listings. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit when topic varies. ART 4020-29. Special Topics In Art Education. (1-3). Topics are varied and in online class listings. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit when topic varies. ART 1030 - Intro to Art (3) Fundamental principles of artistic expression as basis for understanding Western and non-Western traditions in the visual arts. [G] ART 1210 - Foundations Studio I (3) Methods of studio practice including research, creative problem solving, idea development, collaborative operations, integration of digital technology, engagement with readings in contemporary art criticism and historical and critical texts; emphasis on development of independent projects and critical and verbal skill development. ART 1215 - Foundations Studio II (3) Exploration of design elements and principles as applied to development of two and three dimensional construction; imaginative and fundamental use of materials in visual problem solving. PREREQUISITE: ART 1210. ART 1311 - Drawing I (3) (TBR: ARTP 1010). Introduction to materials and techniques of basic drawing; study of still life, rendering of the human form including work from skeleton and from female and male nude models to develop perception of line, value, space, and volume; use of contour and gesture. ART 1314 - Drawing II (3) (TBR: ARTP 1020). Use of basic drawing materials and techniques; analysis and rendering of the human form, still-life, architectural space and landscape; work from skeleton and from female or male models; study of anatomy and proportion; introduction to issues of expression; continued study of perspective; introduction to alternative drawing approaches. PREREQUISITE: ART 1311. ART 2213 - Typographic Design I (3) Terminology, technology, and design aspects of typography for effective communication. PREREQUISITE: ART 1210 and Acceptable Incoming Evaluation for Graphic Design. ART 2219 - Visual Thinking (3) Fundamental methods in generating ideas for effective visual communication. PREREQUISITE: ART 1210, 1311, and Acceptable Incoming Evaluation for Graphic Design. ART 2223 - Computer Assisted Graphc Des (3) Introduction to computer graphic design; overview of technical and aesthetic issues relevant to graphic design profession. ART 2301 - Digital Art I (3) Introduction to computer graphics and its application in field of Art; use of standard hardware and software to solve creative problems; exploration of current issues and computer history. PREREQUISITE: ART 1210, 1311, or permission of instructor. ART 2305 - Princ Time/Based Media (3) Study of various principles and techniques applied by cinematographers, film editors and designers to plan and produce time-based media; storyboarding and effective use of animation and sound. ART 2331 - Painting I (3) Preliminary course in theory and practice of oil painting. PREREQUISITE: ART 1210, 1311, or permission of instructor. ART 2351 - Intro to Printmaking (3) Printmaking processes: relief, intaglio, planography, and stencil, focusing on relief and screen printing. PREREQUISITE: ART 1210, 1311, or permission of instructor. ART 2352 - Intro Intaglio/Lithography (3) Monochrome metal plate intaglio and stone lithography. Intaglio includes etching, engraving, and acquatint; lithography includes crayon, wash, and transfer; emphasis on personal expression. PREREQUISITE: ART 1210, 1311, or permission of instructor. ART 2511 - Sculpture I (3) Introduction to basic materials and techniques of sculpture. PREREQUISITE: ART 1215 or permission of instructor. ART 2523 - Ceramics I (3) Introduction to clay and ceramic process; emphasis on thoughtful, purposeful exploration of medium, regarding both pottery vessel and nonvessel object. ART 2701 - Photography I (3) Basic techniques and processes of still photography; history and aesthetics of photography as fine art; emphasis on personalized perception and seeing photographically. ART 2702 - Photography II (3) Exploration of black and white still photography as means to personal expressive statement and self-discovery; assignments emphasize a broad range of contemporary photographic practice. PREREQUISITE: ART 2701 or permission of instructor. ART 3000 - Photography Lab Management (1) Training in proper photography lab management; after training, class time is devoted to lab management experience. ART 3213 - Typographic Design II (3) Advanced problems involving visual organization and typography as an expressive design element. PREREQUISITE: Admission to Graphic Design concentration. ART 3219 - Image Design (3) Strategies, processes and techniques for integrating verbal and visual messages in graphic communications; illustration and computer imaging. PREREQUISITE: Admission Graphic Design concentration. ART 3222 - Graphic Design Method (3) Emphasis on intellectual processes underlying applied design. PREREQUISITE: Admission to Graphic Design concentration. ART 3227 - Electronic Pre-Press Prod (3) Methods of preparing art for reproduction. PREREQUISITE: ART 3222. ART 3313 - Drawing And Composition (3) (2313). Problems in visual communication; emphasis on compositional and technical considerations; analytical and objective investigations of organizational problems; use of varied graphic media and methods. PREREQUISITE: ART 1311 and 1314, or permission of instructor. ART 3314 - Drawing And Concepts (3) Problems in visual communication; emphasis on personal expression; conceptual and subjective investigation of individual problem-solving strategies; use of varied graphic media and methods. PREREQUISITE: ART 2313 or permission of instructor. ART 3332 - Painting II (3) Continuation of ART 2331; still-life, landscape, and portrait painting. ART 3351 - Intaglio Printmaking (3) In-depth study of metal plate intaglio printmaking processes: engraving, drypoint, etching, aquatint, and color intaglio; mixed media; emphasizes personal expression. PREREQUISITE: ART 2352 or permission of instructor. ART 3352 - Lithography (3) In-depth study of lithography in monochrome and color from stone and aluminum plates; mixed media color printing; emphasizes personal expression. PREREQUISITE: ART 2352 or permission of instructor. ART 3411 - Art for Children (3) Introduction to skills and methods for instructional art programs in studio and art appreciation activities; emphasis on materials and ideas for children's art expression and development. ART 3414 - Primary School Art Practicum (1) Observation and art teaching in a local K-4 classroom; campus based seminars. PREREQUISITE: Art major and permission of instructor. (S/U). ART 3416 - Middle School Art Practicum (1) Observation and art teaching in a local 5-8 classroom; campus based seminars. PREREQUISITE: Art major and permission of instructor. (S/U). ART 3423 - Art Secondary Schools (3) Studio activities and related art education issues relevant to the artistic development of adolescents; emphasizes multicultural concerns and art evaluation systems. PREREQUISITE: ART 3411, ARTH 2101, 2102, or permission of instructor. ART 3511 - Sculpture II (3) Problems of sculptural form as expressed in metal, wood, and related materials. ART 3512 - Sculpture III (3) Continuation of ART 3511; emphasis on techniques. ART 3522 - Kilns/Glazes/Tech Skill (3) Further development and experimentation with technical skills; firing kilns, glaze preparation, technical and visual research. PREREQUISITE: ART 1210, 1311, and 2523. ART 3524 - Ceramics II (3) Some consideration to fundamental historical and aesthetic aspects peculiar to ceramics as a studio medium. PREREQUISITE: ART 3522, or permission of instructor. ART 3701 - Photography III (3) Continuation of ART 2702. Closer examination of several key photographers' work as point of departure for student work; how student work relates to traditions. PREREQUISITE: ART 2702, or permission of instructor. ART 4011 - Mural Painting as Public Art (3) Fundamental principles of painting in the creation of indoor and outdoor murals; various techniques specific to mural painting and the design and creation of murals. ART 4209 - Digitl/Motion Typogrphy (3) Aesthetic and technical issues for effective typographic communication in electronic media; emphasis on relationship of form to content; special consideration of time-based presentation and impact of electronic interface. ART 4211 - Writing/Design Process (3) Synthesis of verbal and visual problem-solving methods and the use of writing as integral phase of design process. PREREQUISITE: ART 3213, 3222, or permission of instructor. ART 4221 - Graphic Design/Print Comm (3) Practical problems in areas of publication, information, corporate and promotional design. PREREQUISITES: ART 3213, 3222, or permission of instructor. ART 4222 - Interactive Mltimd/Graphic Des (3) Introduction to time-based, electronic media in graphic design, impact of electronic interface on visual communication; emphasis on visual design of narrative, commercial and/or educational multimedia presentations on computer. PREREQUISITE: ART 2223 and admission to Graphic Design concentration. ART 4223 - Special Studies/Graphic Des (3-12) Advanced instruction in either electronic imaging, typography and publication design, 3-dimensional design, corporate and promotional design, or information graphic design. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit when topic varies. PREREQUISITE: ART 3213, 3222, or permission of instructor. ART 4224 - History Graphic Design (3) Cultural, theoretical, and stylistic aspects of major movements in the field of graphic design in Europe and America from Industrial Revolution to present. PREREQUISITE: Admission to Graphic Design concentration or permission of instructor. ART 4229 - Art Internship (3) Practical experience in professional photography or art within approved professional work environment. ART 4230 - Graphic Design Internship (3) Practical experience in visual communication within approved professional work environment. PREREQUISITE: ART 4221 and recommendation from advisor. ART 4232 - Visual Desgn Business Practice (3) Application of principles, procedures, and business practices of visual design. PREREQUISITE: junior standing or permission of instructor. ART 4233 - Design Practice Studio (3) Work under faculty supervision on projects for institutional and corporate clients; assist in developing publications, exhibits, signage and other graphics, and participate in professional design process from project inception to completion. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit with approval of advisor, but not for the purpose of improving a grade previously earned. PREREQUISITE: senior standing. Admission by portfolio review only. ART 4235 - Graphic Design Portfolio (3) Methodology and techniques in graphic design applied to an extended visual communication project; written proposal, preparation of comprehensive layouts and oral/visual presentation of project. PREREQUISITE: art major with concentration in graphic design and senior status. ART 4314 - Art of the Book (3) Comprehensive study of skills and processes involved on design of traditional and non-traditional book formats; investigation of history of the book, book as aesthetic object and as vehicle for creative expression. PREREQUISITE: ART 3313, 3314, or permission of instructor. ART 4321 - Drawing and Painting I (3) Advanced drawing and painting methods; emphasis on transparent watercolor. PREREQUISITE: ART 3313, or permission of instructor. ART 4322 - Drawing and Painting II (3) Continuation of ART 4321; attention to various mixed media. PREREQUISITE: ART 3313, 4321, or permission of instructor. ART 4331 - Painting III (3) Advanced problems in oil painting, presupposing that student has mastered basic techniques and is ready for a more experimental approach to subject. PREREQUISITE: ART 2331, 3332 or permission of instructor. ART 4332 - Painting IV (3) Continuation of ART 4331; emphasis on development of personal style. PREREQUISITE: ART 2331, 3332, 4331, or permission of instructor. ART 4333 - Painting V (3) Continuation of ART 4332; emphasis on development of personal style. PREREQUISITE: ART 4332, or permission of instructor. ART 4351 - Adv Printmaking I (3) Specialization in one or two printmaking media with emphasis on development of personal imagery and technical skills. PREREQUISITE: ART 2351, 3351 or 3352, or permission of instructor. ART 4352 - Adv Printmaking II (3) Advanced work in one or two printmaking media with continued development of personal imagery and advanced technical skills. PREREQUISITE: ART 2351, 3351 or 3352, and 4351, or permission of instructor. ART 4353 - Computer Image Print/Photo I (3) Use of digital imaging in one of several output options including:inkjet printing, lithography, screen printing, etching, silver and non-silver photographic processes; emphasis on personal expression PREREQUISITE: a computer course and either ART 2351, 2701. ART 4354 - Computer Image Print/Photo II (1-3) Advanced project using digital imaging. Proposal for study to be approved in advance; emphasis on personal expression. PREREQUISITE: ART 4353, or permission of instructor. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. ART 4410 - Art Educ Independ Study (1-3) Theoretical and pragmatic ideas relevant to teaching of art. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 semester hours credit. PREREQUISITE: ART 3411, 3423, or permission of instructor. ART 4418 - High School Art Practicum (1) Observation and art teaching in a local 9-12 classroom; campus based seminars. PREREQUISITE: Art major and permission of instructor. (S/U). ART 4420 - Alternative Art/Ed Practicum (1) Observation and art education for special populations in local schools, community institutions or clinical settings. Includes campus-based seminars. (S/U). ART 4427 - Method/Materials Art Instruc (3) Curriculum planning, resources, and standards for art program goals, budget, and facilities; current art education philosophy and research. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP and ART 2414, 3416, 3423, or permission of instructor. ART 4430 - Community Art Project (1) Opportunity for art education students to utilize studio and pedagogical knowledge and skills to design and implement collaborative, interdisciplinary, comprehensive community art-based learning opportunities for urban youth. Includes 20 hours of field experience. Students submit a process portfolio documenting their experiences. PREREQUISITE: Art Education major and permission of instructor. Students may be required to obtain a background check at students' expense. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: must be admitted to Teacher Education Program (TEP). ART 4440 - Analysis of Teaching (4) Advanced methods for art teaching practices in schools. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. ART 4441 - Art Ed Prof Seminar (3) Analysis and problem solving of art student teaching experience; creation of art teacher's professional portfolio. PREREQUISITE: completion of all licensure and degree requirements. COREQUISITE: ART 4912. ART 4511 - Sculpture IV (3) Advanced work in various sculptural media. PREREQUISITE: ART 2511, 3511, 3512, or permission of instructor. ART 4512 - Sculpture V (3) Continuation of 4511; emphasis on personal expression. PREREQUISITE: ART 4511, or permission of instructor. ART 4521 - Ceramics III (3) Advanced studies in ceramic process and technique; concentration on development of personal attitudes toward work. PREREQUISITE: ART 3524, or permission of instructor. ART 4522 - Ceramics IV (3) Technical competence and the production of ceramic objects reflective of genuinely personal involvement. PREREQUISITE: ART 4521, or permission of instructor. ART 4621 - Workshop in Art I (1-3) Specific art problems as they apply to individual student; emphasis on basic art concepts and creative experience. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ART 4622 - Workshop in Art II (1-3) Continuation of ART 4621, providing study of problems appropriate to need of individual student. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ART 4641 - Study and Travel in Art (3-6) Travel to important art areas of world and specialized study under direction of faculty member of Department of Art. ART 4650 - Profess Art Practices (3) Development of skills needed for success as practicing professional artist; portfolio preparation and presentation, marketing, contracts, copyrights, and alternative art careers. PREREQUISITE: Studio Arts or Photography concentration, or permission of instructor. COREQUISITE: ART 4990. ART 4701 - Color Photography (3) Exploration of photographic perception in color; survey of history and aesthetics of color photography; techniques of color photography; emphasis on color printing. PREREQUISITE: ART 3701, junior standing, or permission of instructor. ART 4702 - Photographic Material/Process (3) Advanced technical course exploring creative potential in various contemporary photography materials, processes and techniques; emphasis on aesthetic application of those materials and techniques. PREREQUISITE: ART 3701, or permission of instructor. ART 4703 - Alternative Photogrphc Process (3) Exploration of creative potential of archaic and non-traditional photographic processes such as Cyanotype, Gum Bichromate and Kwik-Print. PREREQUISITE: ART 3701, or permission of instructor. ART 4704 - Photographic Lighting (3) Advanced theory, technique, and equipment used by professional photographers for black and white and color; emphasis on aesthetic application in actual practice. PREREQUISITE: ART 3701, or permission of instructor. ART 4705 - Video for Artists (3) Digital video art production with a focus on history of video art and personal expression. ART 4711 - Adv Photography Seminar (1-3) Creation of a unified body of photographic work based on subject matter or formal problem. Contract for study project to be approved by instructor in semester prior to registration. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 semester hours credit. PREREQUISITE: ART 3701, or permission of instructor. ART 4712 - Photography Portfolio Seminar (1-3) Creation and production of bound book or portfolio containing student's photographs and written introduction. Contract for study project to be approved by instructor in semester prior to registration. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 semester hours credit. PREREQUISITE: ART 4711, or permission of instructor. ART 4912 - Art Education Residency II (9) Implementing various methodologies, assessing students, classroom management,and classroom discipline. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. ART 4914 - Art Education Residency I (5) Implementing various methodologies, assessing students, classroom management, classroom discipline. PREREQUISITE: admission to TEP. ART 4990 - Senior Thesis Preparation (3) Process of integrating advanced knowledge of one or more studio fields, and one or more areas of historical or contemporary art interests. Students will meet regularly with a committee of faculty to receive input and direction regarding the progress of the development of a body of work. The course will include group critiques, reading assignments, research discussion. COREQUISITE: ART 4650. ART 4995 - Senior Thesis Exhibition (3) Planning and execution of Thesis Exhibition. PREREQUISITE: ART 4990. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .