#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11464
Assistant Professor of Music - Piano Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant Professor of Music - Piano Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC436 Advertised Title Assistant Professor of Music - Piano Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 001996 Category Full-Time Faculty Department School of Music Position Summary The University of Memphis invites applications for the following nine-month, tenure track position in the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music beginning August, 2016. Duties may include applied piano instruction and chamber music coaching on the undergraduate and graduate levels; coordinating the collaborative piano program; teaching piano pedagogy and piano literature courses; collaborating with faculty and guest artists; active recruiting of students; and maintaining a performing career outside of the university. Service on Committees at the School of Music, College, and University levels, is expected, as well as other duties as required. Applicants with additional areas of expertise and interest are encouraged to apply. Minimum Position Qualifications Masters in piano performance is required; a doctorate and university teaching experience are desired. The successful candidate should be an outstanding performer in solo and collaborative repertoire with a national and/or international reputation, and the ability to recruit high-level students. Special Conditions The University of Memphis is a comprehensive metropolitan research university located in Memphis, Tennessee, one of the most musically active communities in the Mid-South. Current enrollment is approximately 20,500 students. The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music is fully accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music and has a full-time faculty of 42 with approximately 400 music majors. Degree programs include: Bachelor of Music in performance, music history, composition, music education, music business, recording technology, jazz and studio music performance, and jazz and studio music composition/arranging; Master of Music in performance, musicology, Orff-Schulwerk, music education, pedagogy, jazz and studio music, composition, and conducting; Doctor of Philosophy in musicology and music education; Doctor of Musical Arts in performance, composition, and conducting. A graduate certificate, the Artist Diploma in Music, is also offered. The School of Music is housed in the College of Communication and Fine Arts. Posting Date 10/30/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range Competitive Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Applications may be submitted at . Additional items required at time of application include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, unofficial transcript, statement of teaching philosophy, a list of three (3) references with contact information (address, telephone number, and e-mail address), and a document listing online links to live video and audio performances in solo and collaborative repertoire, and links to videos of teaching if available. Do not send hard copies or any supplemental information at this time. Review of applications will begin December 1st, 2015, and may continue until a successful candidate is named. The committee members for the position are: Cathal Breslin (Chair) Kevin Richmond Mark Ensley Kyle Ferrill Elise Blatchford For information regarding this position, contact: Dr. Cathal Breslin Chair, Piano Search Committee Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 cbreslin@memphis.edu Instructions to Applicant regarding references Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Cover Letter Teaching Philosophy Other Document 1 References List Unofficial Transcript Optional Documents