#http://www.memphis.edu/reslife/resourses/cainfo.php
Conference Assistant Information - Reslife - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Residence Life and Dining Services About Housing Dining News Resources ResNet Child Care Resources Employment Opportunities Maintenance Request Campus Cable TV Streaming Video Conference Housing Home Reslife Resources Conference Assistant Information POSITION AS A CONFERENCE ASSISTANCE CONFERENCE ASSISTANT JOB SUMMARY: The Conference Assistant serves under the Assistant Director for Residence Education and the Assistant Director of Conference Planning and Operations. The individual works as an official representative of the Department of Residence Life &amp; Dining Services, the Department of Conference Planning and Operations, and The University of Memphis. [APPLICATIONS ARE CLOSED FOR THE SEASON. PLEASE CHECK BACK AGAIN WHEN THEY REOPEN] Click here to Apply Now Click here if Returning CA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: Sunday, May 10, 2015 through Thursday, August 20, 2015 JOB DUTIES: Staff 24-hour Conference Housing desk. Staff check-in and check-out of Conference Housing guests including distribution and collection of keys. Inspect rooms to insure preparation before group arrival and after group departure. Work with Housekeeping Staff to insure satisfactory preparation of facilities. Assist in preparation of conference information materials and paperwork. Insure completion of registration paperwork by Conference Housing guests. Advise Asst. Director and Managers of all phases of conference daily activities. Evaluate conferences indicating problems and concerns as well as positive feedback. Work assigned desk shifts as necessary. The work schedule will be determined in advance and will include evening and weekend work as determined by the conference schedule. Be available in the residence halls for scheduled duty nights. Respond to emergency situations. Assist Asst. Director and Managers with other duties as required. Present a good image of The University of Memphis by means of a tidy appearance, a pleasant and helpful disposition, and a positive attitude and responsive action. REQUIREMENTS: Must be a student enrolled at The University of Memphis. Must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.25 Must live in assigned residence hall during summer months. As a live-in staff member, the conference assistant will be expected to be accessible in person and/or by telephone to handle questions, respond to emergency situations and perform other administrative tasks as required. Must have an answering machine or personal cell phone to be used as work contact. Flexible hours to coincide with conference schedule. Must wear appropriate conference attire. May only take one summer school class per session. Preference may be given to those who are not enrolled in summer school. May not be employed at another job on or off campus. COMPENSATION: Stipend of $1,160.00 plus an hourly rate of $7.25 for hours worked at the desk. Free room. If you have any further questions about the Summer Conference Assistant position or about Summer Conference Housing, please call 678-5929. CA SELECTION TIMELINE-SUMMER 2015 January 5 Applications available online and in the Residence Life Office February 9 Priority application deadline February 11 Interviews Begin (scheduled through invitation) March 6 Interviews conclude March 23-27 Acceptance &amp; Rejection Letters are sent CONFERENCE ASSISTANT REFERENCE FORMS: Each CA Application must also have 3 reference and Background Check forms mailed or faxed to the Residence Life Office at 011 Richardson Towers, Memphis, TN 38152 or Fax: (901) 678-5219. Click here to print off the reference form . Click here to print off the CA Background form . Applications: Returning CA / New CA Resources Employment Opportunities Maintenance Request Campus Cable TV Streaming Video Conference Housing Apply for Housing Apply now and secure your place on campus Campus Living Join a Living Learning Community Housing Policy Make sure you know the rules Meet the Staff Who to know and where to go Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/12/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .