#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/records/ferpa-annual.php
FERPA - Annual Notification - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Home Registrar Students FERPA - Annual Notification Student Rights Under FERPA The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) affords eligible students certain rights with respect to their education records. (To see what is considered an educational record at UofM, see Inventory of Academic and Student Education Records .) These rights, as well as Directory Information, are discussed below. Student Rights The right to inspect and review the student's education records within 45 days [calendar days] of the day the University receives a request for access. To gain access, the student must submit a written request to the record custodian, identifying the specific record(s) the student wishes to inspect. This request will be granted within 45 days. The student may ask for an explanation and/or copy of his/her "Education Record". Examination will be permitted under conditions that will prevent alteration or mutilation of the record. The record custodian or a designee will make arrangements for access and notify the student of the time and place where the requested records may be inspected. The student must present proper identification upon request. Documents submitted by or for the student in support of his/her application for admission or for transfer credit will not be returned to the student or sent elsewhere. Right of Access does not include: Financial records of parents or any information therein. Confidential letters and statements of recommendation, which were placed in the "Education Records" prior to January 1, 1975. "Records" to which access has been waived by a student. The right to request an amendment of the student's education records that the student believes are inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of the student's privacy rights under FERPA. If the student believes the "Record" content to be inaccurate, he/she may submit a request for amendment of his/her record. Normally such matters will be satisfactorily settled in the course of informal discussion with the student. When this is not the case, the request and the challenge must be presented in writing to the record custodian who will inform the student of his/her decision within 45 days. If the record custodian decides not to amend the record as requested, the record custodian will notify the student in writing of the decision and of the student’s right to a hearing regarding the request for amendment. If the student decides to pursue, he/she may then submit a written request for a hearing to the Registrar or designee, who will (1) appoint an Appeals Committee consisting of four "Record" custodians (none of whom is custodian of the "Record" in question), with one of the four designated as chair, and (2) designate a time and place for the first meeting and inform the student of the same. The Appeals Committee will convene with the student within 45 days from the date of receipt of the request, allowing the student, or his/her parents if the student is a dependent, to present relevant evidence. The student may be assisted or represented by counsel of his/her choice and at his/her own expense. A written decision based solely upon evidence presented at the hearing will be given to the student within 45 days after the conclusion of the hearing, including a summary of the evidence and reasons for the decision and notification of his/her right to place a statement in the "Education Record". Thereupon, the student may submit to the Committee a written explanation to be inserted into the "Record". Note: This procedure does not provide for a hearing to contest an academic grade. The right to provide written consent before the University discloses personally identifiable information from the student's education records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent. The University discloses education records without a student’s prior written consent under the FERPA exception for disclosure to school officials with legitimate educational interests. A school official is a person employed by the University in an administrative, supervisory, academic or research, or support staff position (including law enforcement unit personnel and health staff); a person serving on an institutional governing body; a person or company (vendor) with whom the University has contracted as its agent to provide a service instead of using University employees or officials (such as the National Student Clearinghouse, an attorney, auditor, collection agency, IT service provider, etc.); an organization conducting studies for the University for the purpose of assisting in accomplishing the University’s mission; a volunteer serving the University in a position requiring access to student records, including but not limited to, ROTC instructors, administrators, and staff serving at the University; or a student serving on an official committee or assisting another school official in performing his or her tasks. A school official has a legitimate education interest if the official needs access to an education record in order to fulfill his or her professional responsibilities for the University. Upon request, the University also discloses education records without consent to: officials of another school in which a student seeks or intends to enroll or is already enrolled, parents of dependent students when proof of dependency is provided, appropriate persons in connection with an emergency if knowledge is necessary to protect the health or safety of a student or other persons, the courts, in compliance with judicial order or subpoena, after the University has made a reasonable effort to notify the student, accrediting organizations to carry out their accrediting functions, state and local officials authorized by Tennessee statute adopted prior to November 19, 1974, federal or state officials as defined in the regulations concerning this law, who may re-disclose such records or personally identifiable information to a third party in connection with program evaluation, research, or data compilation, and appropriate persons in connection with a student's application for or receipt of financial aid. organizations conducting studies for, or on behalf of, the school in order to: (a) develop, validate, or administer predictive tests; (b) administer student aid programs; or (c) improve instruction. For more information, read Disclosure of Records - Release of Personally Identifiable Student Education Records . The right to file a complaint. Written complaints concerning failure by the University to comply with FERPA should be submitted to the University of Memphis, Office of the Registrar, 003 Wilder Tower, Memphis, TN 38152-3520, or to the Family Policy Compliance Office, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20202-4605. Directory Information Directory information is defined by the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) as information contained in a student's education record "that would not generally be considered harmful or an invasion of privacy" if disclosed. Each institution has the right to define, within the limits of FERPA regulations, the data that it considers to be directory information. Directory information may be disclosed from a student's education record without prior consent per FERPA regulations. Therefore, at its discretion, the University of Memphis (UofM) may provide "directory information" in accordance with the provisions of FERPA regulations. Directory information at UofM consists of: Student Name Student Address Telephone Listing Email Address Student U-Number (University ID Number) Date of Birth Major Field of Study Expected Date of Graduation Cumulative Earned Hours Participation in Officially Recognized Activities and Sports Weight and Height of Members of Athletic Teams Dates of Attendance Degrees, including Date of Graduation Awards Received (e.g., Dean's List, Graduation Honors) Most Recent Previous Education Agency or Institution Attended by the Student Student’s Current Enrollment Status (number of enrolled hours, full-time or part-time status) Student’s Classification (level) University Student-Employment Status Instructions for requesting that directory information not be released may be found at Restrict Release of Directory Information . This request should be carefully considered since it could have undesired results. For any student whose directory data is restricted, the University will: not include the student's name, address, or phone number in the Telephone Directory (Note, the University can only ensure that your information will be withheld from the telephone directory if your request is turned in before the 14th day of Fall classes.) not include the student's e-mail address in the e-mail directory; refuse to release any information about the student to any insurance company, current or future employer, media outlet, and non-institutional person or organization; give no financial aid or personal information over the phone; state, "We can provide no information on that person" to any request for information. UofM will honor your request to withhold directory information but cannot assume responsibility to contact you for subsequent permission to release this information. Regardless of the effect upon you, UofM assumes no liability as a result of honoring your instructions that such information be withheld. University Policy Privacy of Education Records (Compliance with FERPA) Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .