#http://www.memphis.edu/msci/grad/phdmath.php
Ph.D. Mathematics - Math Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Graduate Admissions Assistantships Awards The M.S. program The Ph.D. program Courses &amp; Syllabi Graduate Exams Graduate Handbook Home Math Sciences Graduate Ph.D. Mathematics Ph.D. Requirements - Mathematics The Ph.D. requirements include both graduate credit requirements (including basic required courses) and examinations. Depending on the background of the student, the basic required courses and Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations can be completed within one to two years. Course Requirements: 72 hours of graduate credit (or 36 hours for students who enter with an approved Master's degree) is required for the degree. In this 72 hour requirement, students must satisfactorily complete certain basic required courses: two semesters of Real Analysis ( Math 7350 and Math 7351 ), two semesters of Algebra ( Math 7261 and Math 7262 ), one semester of Complex Analysis (either Math 6361 or Math 7361 ), and one semester of Topology (either Math 6411 or Math 7411 ). More details on course descriptions and requirements can be found in the Graduate Catalog . Ph.D. Examinations: The Ph.D. requires three examinations: 1. the Ph.D. Qualifying Examination, which is normally completed after the first or second year of graduate studies (depending on the student's background); 2. the Ph.D. Comprehensive Examination, which normally occurs after the student has begun his/her thesis research; and 3. the Dissertation Defense, which occurs at the completion of the program. Ph.D. Qualifying Examination: The PhD Qualifying Examination will consists of two exams, Analysis (covering material in Math 7350 and Math 7351 ) and Algebra (covering material in Math 7261 and Math 7262 ). The two exams, Analysis and Algebra, may be taken at the same time or in different terms. Normally, both exams should be completed by the beginning of the third year of graduate studies, but some flexibility may be negotiated with approval of the Graduate Committee. The exam will be given in the week prior to the start of the Fall Semester and the start of the Spring Semester. Further information on syllabi for basic courses and previous Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations can be found here . Note that the Ph.D. Qualifying Examination structure changed effective January 2014, so some previous examinations may contain parts no longer relevant in the current structure. Ph.D. Comprehensive Examination: This is an oral examination in preparation for the Ph.D. Dissertation and primarily covers specialized material related to the Dissertation topic. Upon completion of this exam the Comprehensive Exam Results Form must be completed and returned to the Math Department. Dissertation Defense: Students are expected to defend their dissertation during their last year in the program. Then the Dissertation Final Defense Results Form must be completed and returned to the Graduate School. Completion of the basic course requirements leading to the successful completion of the Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations can be summarized by the following tables: To take the Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations after the first year of the program: Fall Spring 1st year Math 7350 Real Variables I Math 7261 Algebraic Theory I Math 6411 or Math 7411 Topology Math 7351 Real Variables II Math 7262 Algebraic Theory II Math 6361 or Math 7361 Complex Variables To take the Ph.D. Qualifying Examinations after the second year of the program: Fall Spring 1st year Math 6350 Intro to Real Analysis I Math 6261 Abstract Algebra Math 6411 or Math 7411 Topology Math 6351 Intro to Real Analysis II Math 6361 or Math 7361 Complex Variables Math 6000-8999 Elective 2nd year Math 7350 Real Variables I Math 7261 Algebraic Theory I Math 6000-8999 Elective Math 7351 Real Variables II Math 7262 Algebraic Theory II Math 6000-8999 Elective Graduate Admissions Assistantships Awards The M.S. program The Ph.D. program Courses &amp; Syllabi Graduate Exams Graduate Handbook Contact Us How to contact us, and whom to contact about what. Student FAQ Student resources for advising, tutoring, and registering for classes. ALEKS Information on the ALEKS computerized placement test. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .