#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/graduate/bornblum.php
Bornblum Travel Award - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact Graduate Program Resources About M.A. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Current Graduate Students Graduate Courses Erasmus Mundus Program Financial aid/awards Bornblum Travel Award Study Abroad Placement How to Apply Other Resources Home Philosophy Graduate Bornblum Travel Award Bornblum Travel Award Overview This award was made possible by the generous donation of David Bornblum in honor of his father Bert Bornblum, a long-time friend of the Philosophy Department. It provides, on a competitive basis, funds to curb the expense of professional travel for PhD students. Selection Criteria Generally, grants should be awarded according to the following priorities: Category I (1) Conference presentations at a major venue (national conferences, including those within a significant disciplinary concentration, are more significant than regional conferences) of a primary paper. (2) Research travel for advanced PhD students with promise of significant contribution to their dissertation project. Category II (3) Other conference presentations. Commenting. (4) Other educational or research opportunities such as language programs or work that, while not immediately relevant to the identified dissertation area of the student, contributes to the student's AOS/AOC. These categories and subcategories may be thought of as providing four default ordered priorities. However, they cannot be thought of as providing a strict lexical ordering. Various considerations may be relevant. Obviously, the expected benefits of presenting a paper (or commenting) at a conference varies with the geographical and disciplinary scope of the conference, but also with the expected quality of participants generally, the focus of the conference on an issue, the connections and visibility that is likely to result, and like matters. So, commenting on a paper by a prominent philosopher at a conference analogous to our own Spindel Conference, and one focused centrally in the student's AOS would presumably have a strong case for being funded. Similarly, participation in certain programs at which our faculty and students have been conspicuous and at which our students have made contacts of significance can be given some weight, even when a student is not presenting. Here, clearly, more advanced students may do more for themselves and for our program than less advanced students, and clearly those presenting are likewise better placed to benefit themselves and the program. Application Process In view of the range and nuance of relevant considerations, students should produce and submit a proposal. The proposal should include: A discussion of the range of benefits to themselves and the graduate program of their participation in the conference, program, or course of study they propose. Other academic funding applications already under review, planned, or in preparation. A concise budget for travel. Proposals should also be accompanied by a letter (or email) of support by the student's faculty mentor and/or dissertation supervisor. This letter should explain (a) the significance of the conference/program, (b) the contribution it makes to the student's professional profile and development, and (c) the impact on the student's degree completion. Proposals should be submitted electronically to the Department Chair, Director of Graduate Studies, Chair of the Bornblum Travel Award Committee, and the student's Faculty Mentor/Dissertation Director. Rolling Admissions and Decisions Proposals should be submitted at least ten weeks prior to conference travel. A small committee will, in consultation with the Chair, make decisions regarding the success of funding proposals. Proposals may be rejected on the basis of the availability of funds. Graduate Program Resources About M.A. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Current Graduate Students Graduate Courses Erasmus Mundus Program Financial aid/awards Bornblum Travel Award Study Abroad Placement How to Apply Other Resources Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .