#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/comp.php
Computer Science - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Computer Science Computer Science SAJJAN G. SHIVA, PhD Chair Room 375, Dunn Hall 901.678.5465 sshiva@memphis.edu LAN WANG, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies lanwang@memphis.edu info@cs.memphis.edu I. The Department of Computer Science offers the Master of Science in Computer Science and in Applied Computer Science, as well as the PhD degree in Computer Science. It also offers a Graduate Certificate in Information Assurance. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. Master of Science in Computer Science Admission Requirements GRE scores are required and are an important factor for admission; Two letters of recommendation; An undergraduate degree with a minimum GPA of 2.5 on a 4.0 scale; A minimum score of 550 on the paper-based TOEFL, or 79 on the internet-based TOEFL (for students whose native language is not English). Prerequisites One year (8 credit hours) of calculus and one semester (3 credit hours) of linear algebra (Students without the calculus and/or linear algebra prerequisites will be considered on an individual basis and if admitted must correct the deficiency within the first semester.) Satisfactory completion of the following courses (or their equivalents): COMP 1900, 2150, 3410, 4030, 4040, 4270; MATH 2701. (None of these courses may be used to fulfill degree requirements.) Program Requirements Satisfactory completion of 34 credit hours of graduate course work approved by the department, as follows: At least 28 credit hours must be from the 7/8000 level, including: Core Requirement: COMP 7012, 7212, 7612, 7712. At least three of these courses must be completed with a grade of B- or better prior to completion of 18 hours of credit in the program, unless approved by the student's advisor. Project/Thesis: COMP 7996 or COMP 7980. NOTE: Students choosing the thesis option should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. At most 6 credit hours of any combination of COMP 6901, 6911, 7/8901, 7980 and/or 7996 can be used toward the 34 hours of course work. COMP 6601 is not accepted toward the degree. Obtain a passing grade on a comprehensive examination approved by the department. III. PhD Degree in Computer Science Admission Requirements GRE scores are required and are an important factor for admission; Three letters of recommendation; An undergraduate degree in an appropriate discipline with a minimum GPA of 2.5 (on a 4.0 scale) or equivalent preparation; A score of at least 550 on the paper-based TOEFL, or 79 on the internet-based TOEFL (for students whose native language is not English). Program Requirements Satisfactory completion of coursework requirements as follows: Students with an approved Masters Degree must complete at least 36 credit hours, subject to the following rules: Between 9-15 credit hours of Dissertation (COMP 9000). NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. All other credit must be completed at the 8000-level At most 15 credits of Independent Studies (COMP 8901) can be included Students without an approved Masters Degree must complete at least 72 credit hours, which must satisfy the following rules: The following coursework must be completed: Core Requirements: COMP 7012, 7212, 7612,and 7712. The student must obtain a grade of B or better in each of these courses. The courses must be completed within the 36 credits the student earns in the program. Research Methods in Computer Science (COMP 7950) to be completed by the end of the second semester. Between 9-15 credit hours of Dissertation (COMP 9000). NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. At least 12 credit hours must be completed in courses at the 8000-level other than COMP 8901. At most 6 credit hours can be completed in 6000-level courses. At most 18 credit hours of Independent Studies (COMP 7/8901) can be included. Students who are requesting transfer from another graduate program will be evaluated by the Graduate Programs Committee and/or its designee (upon submitting an application during the student's first semester in the program) to determine the number of credits that can be transferred towards completion of these requirements. The number of credit hours transferred may be limited by the Graduate School. Satisfactory completion of the following examinations: Qualifying examination: Satisfactory completion of the core requirement is deemed as passing the qualifying examination. Students with an approved Masters Degree may satisfy a core requirement by taking the final exam of the core course and obtaining a passing mark as equivalent to obtaining a B or better grade of the course. A maximum of two attempts are allowed for each core course, and they must be made within the first 39 credit hours of entering the program (24 for students with an approved Masters Degree). Comprehensive Examination: Given and evaluated by a committee composed of departmental and university representatives upon presentation of an acceptable dissertation proposal. Final Examination: Given and evaluated by a committee composed of departmental and university representatives upon completion of an acceptable dissertation. Detailed information can be obtained by contacting the graduate coordinator of the department. Details of the format of the examinations can be found on the Computer Science Department Web site (http:// ). IV. Graduate Certificate in Information Assurance (GCIA) This certificate program highlights important aspects of information security and assurance technologies. The University of Memphis is designated by DHS and NSA as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance, and its IA courses are accredited by the Committee for National Security Systems for Computer Security standards 4011, 4012, and 4013. These security standards specify the minimum knowledge, skills, and abilities required to fulfill the duties, respectively, of an Information Systems Security Professional, Senior System Manager, and System Administrator. The IA certificate program is administered by the Computer Science Department, the courses are taught by different departments and colleges, and any graduate student meeting admission requirements will be eligible to join the certificate program. Click here to view corresponding gainful employment data. The objectives of the certificate program are as follows: Provide knowledge of contemporary and historical trusted computing systems from an operational, theoretical, and design standpoint. Detailed discussion on security-specific hardware, software, and methodologies. A certificate program meeting national standards that will prepare students to serve the state and the country in a critical area of vulnerability in information infrastructure. Educate students on ethical, management, policies and legal issues, and requirements in the field of information assurance Admission Requirements The certificate program in Information Assurance may be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the university. In particular, students currently admitted to a graduate program at the U of M may join this certificate program. To apply, students must submit the application form ( ) and transcripts of prior graduate study. Non-degree graduate students may also pursue this certificate program of study. For example, professionals who have a BS in computer science, computer engineering, or a closely related field, or who have a bachelor's degree in another field and have been working in the Information Technology (IT) field for at least three years, can apply to the program. These applicants are required to submit a brief (one- to two-page) statement of educational and work experience in the computing field, including their background in computer security, in addition to the requirements above. Students must apply both to the program and to the University. GRE scores are not required for non-degree students' admission into the IA certificate program. Acceptance to the certificate program is not an implied acceptance into the MS program in Computer Science. Program Requirements The certificate program requires completion of 12 semester credit hours: 6 from the list of major IA courses and 6 from the list of electives. Major IA Courses COMP 6410. Computer Security COMP 7120-8120 (Same as MIS 7670). Cryptography and Data Security COMP 7327-8327. Network and Internet Security Note: Non-computer science students must take the prerequisite COMP 3825 (Networking and Information Assurance) or equivalent before taking any of the above COMP courses. IA Electives COMP 6272. System Administration and UNIX Programming COMP 7900. Cyber Ethics COMP 7125. Computer Forensics (New) LAW 386. Cyber Law CJUS 6180. Corporate &amp; White Collar Crime Retention In order to continue in the program, students must maintain at least a 3.0 GPA. Graduation To obtain the certificate a student must complete four above-mentioned courses (2 major courses and 2 electives), with an average grade of 3.0 (B) or higher, for a total of 12 credits. Note: No more than 6 credit hours of this certificate program can be applied to the MS/PhD degree in computer science. V. Accelerated B.S./M.S. Program in Computer Science This program is designed for outstanding undergraduate students to complete both their B.S. and M.S. program in Computer Science. Students admitted into the program will begin a carefully tailored program which allows them to begin coursework for the M.S. program while completing their B.S. degree. With careful planning and working with the undergraduate and graduate coordinators, they will be able to graduate with both B.S. and M.S. degrees within five years. To apply, students must have finished 19 COMP credits by the end of the semester of the application; and they should maintain an overall GPA of 3.00 as well as a GPA of 3.60 in the COMP courses. Applicants must submit 2 letters of reference and a copy of their transcript to the Computer Science Department. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for the “combination senior” status, which allows them to take graduate courses in Computer Science. To continue in the program past the B.S., students must apply for full admission to the Graduate School and be admitted to the Computer Science Master’s Program. Up to 9 hours of graduate coursework may be applied to both programs. The list of courses that can be applied will be available in the Computer Science Department. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .