#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/undergraduate/preparingforgrad.php
Preparing for Graduate School - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources Undergraduate Advising About Us Advising Appointment Resources Contact us Undergraduate Information Getting Involved Prepare for Graduate School Honors Program Psychology as a Career FAQ Home Department of Psychology Undergraduate Preparing for Graduate School Preparing for Graduate School The Basics Your grades: It goes without saying that you must present a strong academic record in order to be considered seriously for graduate school. Practically every graduate program will expect you to have a GPA of 3.0 or higher, and many will expect you to have a GPA of 3.5 or higher. Necessary Courses: In general, graduate programs expect applicants to have completed substantive coursework in psychology. This includes courses in statistics, research methods, and the experimental areas of the field. You should strongly consider retaking such courses if you do poorly. Desirable Courses: A history and systems course is considered desirable by many graduate programs (and a requirement for graduation from our undergraduate program). A second statistics course, computer literacy and/or programming courses, and biology/physiology/neuroscience coursework is also considered desirable. Research Experience: Graduate work in psychology requires conducting research for theses and dissertations. Degrees are not awarded simply for completing coursework. Therefore, one of the best ways to make yourself attractive to graduate programs is to get involved in research as an undergraduate. You should work closely on a research project or projects with one or more members of the faculty. Ideally, this participation should continue for more than one semester. This experience provides evidence to the graduate programs that you know what research is like. It will also provide evidence for you - do you enjoy research enough to spend several years (or the rest of your career) doing it? For more details about getting involved in research at The UofM, click on Opportunities. Letters of Recommendation: Keep in mind that you will need to obtain at least three informed letters of recommendation. This means that at least three members of the faculty must get to know you better than simply as a face in the classroom. One of the best ways of getting to know faculty is to get involved in their research. Graduate Record Examination: Virtually all graduate programs require you to submit the scores you received on the Graduate Record Examination (GRE). Some people will tell you that it is impossible to study for this test. Don't believe them. Buy a current copy of a GRE study guide (such as Barron's, Arco's, etc.) and review it carefully, especially any math sections that you're rusty on. Take the practice tests under real-time conditions. This will familiarize you with the format of the test and help you to pace your time so that you can finish all the questions. You should take the aptitude portion of the GRE (verbal, quantitative, analytical) as early as the fall term of your junior year. This will allow time for remedial study and retaking the test if you perform poorly the first time. Old scores stay on your records for five years, and schools differ in how they evaluate multiple sets of scores (some average the scores; many look only at the most recent). In general, the verbal and quantitative scores are given more weight than the analytical score. Take the advanced (psychology) test during the fall of your senior year so that you have the benefit from additional psychology coursework. It is not recommended that you take the aptitude and advanced tests on the same day. You may use your scores on the Psychology Field Test, a graduation requirement for psychology majors at The UofM, as part of your graduate school application. Don't let low test scores keep you from applying, but you should have something to offset them (such as research experience or a very high GPA). Don't hide low scores from your letter writers; they may be able to help you de-emphasize or explain them in their letters. Relative Importance of the Various Factors: The three primary components of your application will be your grades, your GRE scores, and letters of recommendation. Different programs and faculty will assign different weights to these factors. Good performance in one may make up for weaker performance in another area. Here is a guide to assist in preparing for Graduate School. Undergraduate Advising About Us Advising Appointment Resources Contact us Undergraduate Information Getting Involved Prepare for Graduate School Honors Program Psychology as a Career FAQ Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .