#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/edu/cepr.php
CEPR Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning CEPR Courses COUNSELING SERVICES (COUN) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: COUN 7006-15. Special Topics in Counseling and Personnel Services. (1-3). Study of current topics in the area of counseling and personnel services. May be repeated with a change in content. COUN 7820-29–8820-29. Special Topics in Counseling. (1-3). Study of current topics in the area of counseling. May be repeated with a change in content; see on-line class listings for topics. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. COUN 6611 - Intro To Counseling (3) Exploration of history, principles and administration of counseling services in community agencies, schools, business, and industry. Survey of applicable counseling services, skills, and techniques. COUN 6781 - Strat Crisis Intrvntn (3) Process of crisis intervention; study and practice in understanding crisis-induced dysfunctional behavior, recognizing crisis situations, and crisis counseling procedures. COUN 6783 - Alcohol/Drug Abuse Ser (3) Survey of human services for treating alcoholics and substance abusers; overview of treatment strategies and philosophies. COUN 6901 - Prin/Tech/Rehab Counsel (3) Overview of the broad field of rehabilitation, including the philosophical, social, psychological, and legal basis of rehabilitation, professional practice, and the counselor's role and function in the rehabilitation process. COUN 6913 - Med/Psyc Aspects/Rehab (3) Orientation to medical profession and its relationship to rehabilitation counseling; basic medical terminology, bodily systems, and DSM diagnosis; theories, application, and research in psychological adjustment of individuals with disabilities; understanding impact of external/environmental conditions on lives of individuals with disabilities. PREREQUISITE: Admission to master's program in counseling. COUN 6921 - Vocational Dev/Occ Info (3) Collection, evaluation, and use of occupational, educational, and related information in rehabilitation; familiarity with development of job descriptions and vocational surveys; study of labor market trends and theories of occupational choice. COUN 7411 - Foundatns of Counseling (3) Introduction to professional roles, responsibilities, and identity of counselor; counseling ethics, credentials, and sociocultural context of counseling. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in COUN degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7531 - Group Counseling Procss (3) Organization and maintenance of effective groups; group participation, projects and readings to aid students in delineating their roles in various group settings. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: COUN 7411. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in COUN degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7541 - Theories Counsel & Pers (3) (7581-8581). Person-centered, behavioral, cognitive-behavioral, reality, rational-emotive, Gestalt, psychoanalytic, and other appropriate theories; emphasis on theoretical concepts, principles, and dynamics as applied in practice. PRE- or COREQUISITE: COUN 7411. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in COUN degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7542 - Theories Chld Coun/Cons (3) (7582-8582). Course provides an introduction to counseling children and adolescents as a means of facilitating healthy development and promoting academic achievement. Through didactic and experiential learning, students in school-based helping professions will develop skills to utilize child centered communication, creative therapies, consultation, and identify and implement theoretically and developmentally informed interventions. COUN 7551 - Assessment Techniques (3) (7651-8651). The basic principles, test and non-test appraisal instruments, and skills of diagnosis; selection, use, and interpretation of such instruments appropriate for individual appraisal. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7511 or 7521; enrollment in COUN degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7561 - Career Counseling (3) (7661-8661). Process of career development and planning, career and lifestyle counseling, planning, and development. PREREQUISITE OR COREQUISITE: COUN 7411. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in COUN degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7571 - Clinical Techniques (3) (7690-8690). Implementation and practice of counseling theories; modeling, practice, and critique of counseling skills. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7411; 7541 or 7542; enrollment in COUN degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7630 - Clinical Mental Health Coun (3) Overview of skills and knowledge unique to mental health counselors; topics include but not limited to: mental health service delivery, assessment for mental disorders, psychotropic medications, the history of mental health counseling, advocacy, social justice, and preventive mental health concepts. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7411, 7531, 7541, 7561 and enrollment in COUN degree program or consent of instructor. PRE- OR COREQUISITE: COUN 7551. COUN 7631 - Pract Mental Health Coun (3) (7892-8892). Supervised counseling experience in a community/mental health setting with varied clientele. The student will be involved in individual and group counseling activities appropriate to the setting. 150 hours. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7411, 7531, 7541, 7551, 7561, 7571, 7750, 7630; CPSY 7700; EDPR 7117, 7521; and program approval. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COUN 7632 - Intern Cmty/Mntl Hlth (4-9) (7698-8698). Supervised counseling experience in an appropriate community/mental health setting. The student will be involved in agency services for a minimum of 300 hours (half-time, for 4 hours) or 600 hours (full-time, for 9 hours). May be repeated by half-time students for a maximum of 9 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7631 and program approval. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COUN 7640 - Principles Schl Couns (3) Organization and administration of components of counseling services in schools, role and function of the school counselor in K-12 system. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7411; enrollment in a school counseling degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7641 - Prac Elem Sch Coun (3) (7692-8692). Supervised counseling with pre K-6 elementary age children; group discussions and individual interviews provide the student opportunities to interact with elementary children in a variety of multicultural settings; practice in appropriate techniques in interaction with elementary children. 150 hours. PREREQUISITE: Program approval. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COUN 7642 - Intern Elem Sch Coun (3-6) (7697). Supervised counseling experience in working with pre K-6 elementary school-aged children in multicultural settings. The student will be involved in services for a minimum of 300 (or half-time for 4 hours) or 600 (or full-time for 6 hours). May be repeated by half-time students for a maximum of 6 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: Program approval. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COUN 7643 - Prac Middle School Coun (3) Supervised counseling with adolescents in middle multicultural settings; assistance with individuals and groups and practice in providing assistance in educational, occupational, and personal decision making. 150 hours. PREREQUISITE: completion of core school counseling courses and permission of advisor. COUN 7644 - Intern Middle School Coun (3-6) Supervised counseling experience in working with adolescents in middle multicultural settings. The student will be involved in services for a minimum of 300 (or half-time for 4 hours) or 600 (or full-time for 6 hours). May be repeated by half-time students for a maximum of 6 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: all core school counseling courses taken plus practicum and advisor permission. COUN 7645 - Prac Sec School Coun (3) (7691-8691). Supervised counseling with adolescents in middle and/or high school multicultural settings; assistance with individuals and groups and practice in providing assistance in educational, occupational, and personal decision making. 150 hours. PREREQUISITE: Program approval. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COUN 7646 - Intern Sec Sch Coun (3-6) (7696-8696). Supervised counseling experience in working with adolescents middle and/or high school multicultural settings. The student will be involved in services for a minimum of 300 (or half-time for 4 hours) or 600 (or full-time for 6 hours). May be repeated by half-time students for a maximum of 6 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: Program approval. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COUN 7700 - Spiritual Issues in Counseling (3) Various spiritual worldviews and issues as well as counseling interventions and ethical concerns will be discussed in the context of recently developed multicultural and spiritual counseling competencies. This course focuses on the importance of spiritual and/or religious values and beliefs that impact the mental health and emotional well being of persons living in diverse communities. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7411, 7541 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7710 - Alcohol/Drug Coun (3) Process of counseling alcoholic and drug dependent persons; modalities of treatment, philosophy of treatment and referral. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7541 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7720 - Sys Develp Family Thrpy (3) (7780). Systems theory applied to families as a framework for family therapy; analysis of family systems at different stages of the family life cycle; history of family therapy, research, and professional ethical issues. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7541 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7721 - Thry/Tchnqs Fam Thrpy (3) (8781). Major approaches to family therapy: structural, Bowenian, strategic, behavioral, communications, experiential, object relations; techniques and assumptions, traditional and current practices. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7541 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program. COUN 7722 - Couple Coun/Therapy (3) (8782). Marital and couple counseling and problem situations; phases of therapy, ethical dilemmas, research methodology in couple/family dysfunction. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7541 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7723 - Hum Sexulty Coun/Psyc (3) Attitudes, values, beliefs, and theoretical concerns related to human sexuality; counseling strategies for individuals and couples regarding sex-related issues. PREREQUISITE: enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7730 - Crisis Intrvntn Coun (3) Study and practice in understanding crisis theory and crisis-induced dysfunctional behavior, recognizing crisis situations, and the application of crisis intervention methods and strategies to help people in emotional crises return to a state of cognitive, affective, and behavioral equilibrium and functional coping. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7740 - Coun Victmzd Chld/Fam (3) This course is designed to familiarize students with issues related to counseling sexually victimized children and their families. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7411, 7541 or 7542, and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program, or consent of instructor. COUN 7750 - Multicultural Counseling (3) (8784). Theory and research on individual and group multicultural counseling with particular attention to ethnic and racial sectors of society in the US. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7411, 7541 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program, or consent of instructor. COUN 7751 - Gender Issues In Coun (3) (8783). Current issues related to counseling women and men including developmental theory, awareness of sex role socialization and biases, and appropriate approaches to counseling women and men. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7752 - Coun Gay/Lesbian/Bisexl (3) Gay, lesbian, and bisexual issues in counseling and psychotherapy; affirmative psychotherapy techniques and gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender issues, including identity formation, homophobia and heterosexism, relationships, parent and family dynamics, ethnic minorities, religion and morality, gender roles, AIDS/HIV, and suicidal ideation. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program. COUN 7770 - Consult Theories/Pract (3) prerequisite: Enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 7771 - Clinical Hypnotherapy (3) Explores theoretical views and pragmatic application of clinical hypnosis for therapeutic purposes; students will master basic therapeutic skills and ethical standards of clinical hypnosis while exploring pragmatic applications and limitations of various hypnotherapy techniques in counseling. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7571 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or permission of instructor. COUN 7780 - Seminar In Counseling (1-3) (7672-8672). Devoted to current concerns and methodology in counseling. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN degree program or permission of instructor. COUN 7790 - Spc Prblms In Coun (1-3) (7993). Individual investigation and report in the area of counseling under the direction of a faculty member. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN degree program or permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. COUN 7821 - Clinical Supervision of COUN (3) Study of current topics in the area of counseling. May be repeated with a change in content; see on-line class listings for topics. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. COUN 7824 - College Admission Counseling (3) This online course is designed to provide systematic training in counseling for the college admission and selection process. Students will be introduced to concepts and practical skills required for competency in working with diverse college applicant populations (e.g., the first generation college student, the learning disabled, the student athlete). The course will consist of remote lectures, presentations, learning activities, video viewings, class discussions boards, and a mini field-work placement designed to enhance knowledge of the college admission and selection process. Topics will include addressing inequities in college access and college-going, organizing a college counseling office, and developing a college-going high school culture. COUN 7825 - Strategies Career Coun in K-12 (3) This online course emphasizes a practical application of career theory to school settings to assist all students plan for life beyond high schools. The adoption of career and college readiness standards by an increasing number of states has created a need for school counselors to lead efforts to design and implement comprehensive K-12 career planning programs. This course aims to build specialization as participants develop the skills to design and implement cohesive career guidance programs informed by developmental theory, assessment, and the career decision-making process. COUN 7826 - Schl Coun to Close Achvmnt Gap (3) The education system is considered the premier vehicle for social mobility, yet student achievement data, graduation and matriculation rates continue to reflect broad societal inequalities. The purpose of this course is to train school counselors to assist marginalized students overcome the societal, familial, and educational barriers that impede positive educational and career outcomes. This course focuses on developing school counselor?s leadership and advocacy skills to design strategic guidance programs grounded in evidence based practices that target the achievement gap and facilitate educational equity for all students. COUN 7827 - Capstone College & Career Coun (3) The purpose of this capstone course is to provide students the opportunity to synthesize their knowledge of college and career counseling and develop their expertise in a field based setting of their choice. Students will spend between 45 to 100 hours in the field depending on the nature of their assignment (research or practice). Students are required to secure a field setting and approval from the program coordinator in advance of commencing this class. Students can choose from a broad array of field placements and activities reflecting their interests and intended specialization. COUN 7841 - Adv Coun Thry & Tech (3) (CPSY 7784-8784). Critical analysis of selected theories and techniques of counseling; emphasis on a variety of major theories and systems; provides a thorough theoretical base for developing a consistent approach to professional counseling. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7541 or 7542, enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or permission of instructor. COUN 7885 - Legal/Eth Issues Coun (3) (CPSY 7785-8785). Examination of existing and needed legislation affecting counseling and psychology, review of critical court cases; ethical standards of professional counseling and psychological organizations; survey of responsibilities and liabilities. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or permission of instructor. COUN 7905 - Case Mgmt In Counseling (3) Introduction to case management and procedures used in counseling and other human service settings; development of a conceptual understanding of case management, and ability to apply this knowledge to different types of populations and different types of treatment settings. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN degree program or permission of instructor. COUN 7912 - Intro Psych Rehab Coun (3) Psychiatric rehabilitation concepts and principles, techniques, history, treatment settings and modalities; emphasizing issues central to mental health consumers such as empowerment, the consumer movement, family intervention, cross-cultural issues, recovery and reintegration within the community. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN degree program or permission of instructor. COUN 7941 - Prac In Rehab Counsel (3) Supervised counseling experiences with persons with disabilities; application of appropriate theories, principles, and practices to personal counseling. PREREQUISITE: COUN 6901, 7411, 7531, 7541, 7571, and 7750; COUN program approval. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COUN 7942 - Internshp Rehab Counsel (4-9) Supervised field experiences in cooperation with the state rehabilitation agency and other human service agencies and facilities. PREREQUISITE: COUN 6913, 6921, 7551, 7912, 7941, and EDPR 7521; COUN program approval. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COUN 8000 - Spec Culmn Experience (1-6) Thesis, internship, field study, or special project designed under the direction of student's committee; serves as capstone experience in the Education Specialist Program. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COUN 8501 - Doctoral Sem Coun (1-3) Professional seminar designed for beginning doctoral students in counseling focuses on the development of professional identity as a leader in counseling; critical philosophical issues; research; new directions in theory and techniques; issues in counselor education and practice. Can be repeated for maximum of 3 credit hours. COUN 8502 - Coun Residency Resrch Semn (3) Supervised construction of the residency research project. Either under individual supervision or in concert with a research team completion of a research project suitable for publication in a national referred journal or presentation at a refereed professional conference. PREREQUISITE: COUN 8501. COUN 8510 - Counselor Supervision (3) (CPSY 7786-8786). Critical analysis of theories of counselor supervision, techniques associated with theories, and assessment of those supervision models; survey of research on counseling supervision issues. PREREQUISITE: Doctoral standing and Program approval. COUN 8511 - Practicum in Counseling (3) Supervised experience in appropriate settings; the student will be involved in varied supervision activities as needed. 150 hours. PREREQUISITE: Program approval. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COUN 8512 - Teaching Counselor Education (3-6) Supervised teaching of graduate students in a counseling course. Responsibilities include curriculum and syllabus construction, clinical critique, lecture development and delivery, course assessment, and other pedagogical activities to develop graduate teaching abilities in counselor education. PREREQUISITE: COUN 8501. COUN 8530 - Doctoral Intern Counseling (3-12) (7699/8699). Supervised experience in counseling and personnel services; complements course study with on-site professional experience focused on programmatic, career, and individual student goals. PREREQUISITE: Program approval. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COUN 8571 - Clinical Techniques (3) (7690-8690). Implementation and practice of counseling theories; modeling, practice, and critique of counseling skills. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7411; 7541 or 7542; enrollment in COUN degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 8630 - Clinical Mental Health Coun (3) Overview of skills and knowledge unique to mental health counselors; topics include but not limited to: mental health service delivery, assessment for mental disorders, psychotropic medications, the history of mental health counseling, advocacy, social justice, and preventive mental health concepts. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7411, 7541, and enrollment in COUN degree program or consent of instructor. PRE- OR COREQUISITE: COUN 7551. COUN 8640 - Principles Schl Couns (3) Organization and administration of components of counseling services in schools, role and function of the school counselor in K-12 system. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7411; enrollment in a school counseling degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 8700 - Spiritual Issues in Counseling (3) Various spiritual worldviews and issues as well as counseling interventions and ethical concerns will be discussed in the context of recently developed multicultural and spiritual counseling competencies. This course focuses on the importance of spiritual and/or religious values and beliefs that impact the mental health and emotional well being of persons living in diverse communities. COUN 8710 - Alcohol/Drug Coun (3) Process of counseling alcoholic and drug dependent persons; modalities of treatment, philosophy of treatment and referral. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7541 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 8720 - Sys Develp Family Thrpy (3) (7780). Systems theory applied to families as a framework for family therapy; analysis of family systems at different stages of the family life cycle; history of family therapy, research, and professional ethical issues. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7541 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 8721 - Thry/Tchnqs Fam Thrpy (3) (8781). Major approaches to family therapy: structural, Bowenian, strategic, behavioral, communications, experiential, object relations; techniques and assumptions, traditional and current practices. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7720 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program. COUN 8722 - Couple Coun/Therapy (3) (8782). Marital and couple counseling and problem situations; phases of therapy, ethical dilemmas, research methodology in couple/family dysfunction. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7720 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 8723 - Hum Sexulty Coun/Psyc (3) Attitudes, values, beliefs, and theoretical concerns related to human sexuality; counseling strategies for individuals and couples regarding sex-related issues. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 8730 - Crisis Intrvntn Coun (3) Study and practice in understanding crisis theory and crisis-induced dysfunctional behavior, recognizing crisis situations, and the application of crisis intervention methods and strategies to help people in emotional crises return to a state of cognitive, affective, and behavioral equilibrium and functional coping. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 8740 - Coun Victmzd Chld/Fam (3) This course is designed to familiarize students with issues related to counseling sexually victimized children and their families. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7411, 7541 or 7542, and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program, or consent of instructor. COUN 8750 - Multicultural Counseling (3) (8784). Theory and research on individual and group multicultural counseling with particular attention to ethnic and racial sectors of society in the US. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7411, 7541 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program, or consent of instructor. COUN 8751 - Gender Issues In Coun (3) (8783). Current issues related to counseling women and men including developmental theory, awareness of sex role socialization and biases, and appropriate approaches to counseling women and men. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 8752 - Coun Gay/Lesbian/Bisexl (3) Gay, lesbian, and bisexual issues in counseling and psychotherapy; affirmative psychotherapy techniques and gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender issues, including identity formation, homophobia and heterosexism, relationships, parent and family dynamics, ethnic minorities, religion and morality, gender roles, AIDS/HIV, and suicidal ideation. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program. COUN 8770 - Consult Theories/Pract (3) PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or consent of instructor. COUN 8771 - Clinical Hypnotherapy (3) Explores theoretical views and pragmatic application of clinical hypnosis for therapeutic purposes; students will master basic therapeutic skills and ethical standards of clinical hypnosis while exploring pragmatic applications and limitations of various hypnotherapy techniques in counseling. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7571 and enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or permission of instructor. COUN 8780 - Seminar In Counseling (1-3) (7672-8672). Devoted to current concerns and methodology in counseling. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN degree program or permission of instructor. COUN 8790 - Spc Prblms In Coun (1-3) (7993). Individual investigation and report in the area of counseling under the direction of a faculty member. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN degree program or permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. COUN 8824 - College Admission Counseling (3) This online course is designed to provide systematic training in counseling for the college admission and selection process. Students will be introduced to concepts and practical skills required for competency in working with diverse college applicant populations (e.g., the first generation college student, the learning disabled, the student athlete). The course will consist of remote lectures, presentations, learning activities, video viewings, class discussions boards, and a mini field-work placement designed to enhance knowledge of the college admission and selection process. Topics will include addressing inequities in college access and college-going, organizing a college counseling office, and developing a college-going high school culture. COUN 8825 - Strategies Career Coun in K-12 (3) This online course emphasizes a practical application of career theory to school settings to assist all students plan for life beyond high schools. The adoption of career and college readiness standards by an increasing number of states has created a need for school counselors to lead efforts to design and implement comprehensive K-12 career planning programs. This course aims to build specialization as participants develop the skills to design and implement cohesive career guidance programs informed by developmental theory, assessment, and the career decision-making process. COUN 8826 - Schl Coun to Close Achvmnt Gap (3) The education system is considered the premier vehicle for social mobility, yet student achievement data, graduation and matriculation rates continue to reflect broad societal inequalities. The purpose of this course is to train school counselors to assist marginalized students overcome the societal, familial, and educational barriers that impede positive educational and career outcomes. This course focuses on developing school counselor?s leadership and advocacy skills to design strategic guidance programs grounded in evidence based practices that target the achievement gap and facilitate educational equity for all students. COUN 8827 - Capstone College & Career Coun (3) The purpose of this capstone course is to provide students the opportunity to synthesize their knowledge of college and career counseling and develop their expertise in a field based setting of their choice. Students will spend between 45 to 100 hours in the field depending on the nature of their assignment (research or practice). Students are required to secure a field setting and approval from the program coordinator in advance of commencing this class. Students can choose from a broad array of field placements and activities reflecting their interests and intended specialization. COUN 8831 - Adv Group Processes (3) (CPSY 7731-8731). Advanced study of group processes as applied to counseling and student services; activities, functions, and dynamics of groups will be studied with actual experience and group work included. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7531 and advanced standing in Counseling program or permission of instructor. COUN 8841 - Adv Coun Thry & Tech (3) (CPSY 7784-8784). Critical analysis of selected theories and techniques of counseling; emphasis on a variety of major theories and systems; provides a thorough theoretical base for developing a consistent approach to professional counseling. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7541 or 7542, enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or permission of instructor. COUN 8885 - Legal/Eth Issues Coun (3) (CPSY 7785-8785). Examination of existing and needed legislation affecting counseling and psychology, review of critical court cases; ethical standards of professional counseling and psychological organizations; survey of responsibilities and liabilities. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN or CPSY degree program or permission of instructor. COUN 8905 - Case Mgmt In Counseling (3) Introduction to case management and procedures used in counseling and other human service settings; development of a conceptual understanding of case management, and ability to apply this knowledge to different types of populations and different types of treatment settings. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN degree program or permission of instructor. COUN 8912 - Intro Psych Rehab Coun (3) Psychiatric rehabilitation concepts and principles, techniques, history, treatment settings and modalities; emphasizing issues central to mental health consumers such as empowerment, the consumer movement, family intervention, cross-cultural issues, recovery and reintegration within the community. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in a COUN degree program or permission of instructor. COUN 9000 - Dissertation (1-9) Credit may be earned over a period of several semesters. The dissertation may be an organized scientific contribution or a comprehensive analysis of theory and practice in a specific area. PREREQUISITE: Pass comprehensive exam, late doctoral status. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. COUNSELING PSYCHOLOGY (CPSY) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: CPSY 8570-8574. Special Topics in Counseling Psychology. (3). Current topics in counseling psychology. May be repeated with a change in content. CPSY 7700 - Intrvntns Mntl Disordrs (3) Covers assessment and diagnosis of mental disorders utilizing DSM-IV classification system and common counseling approaches for each of the major mental disorders; includes current understandings of the etiology, prevention, and treatment of each mental disorder; differential diagnosis using the DSM-IV manual; counseling approaches and case management; and psychopharmacology. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7630. CPSY 7798 - Soc Just Coun & CPSY I (3) Covers issues of social justice in counseling and counseling psychology and provides students with the opportunity to apply their knowledge to a local social justice issue through collaborative consultation, program evaluation, or clinical intervention. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7750-8750, Enrollment in COUN or CPSY graduate programs. CPSY 7799 - Soc Just Coun & CPSY II (3) Covers issues of social justice in counseling and counseling psychology in international settings. Provides students with the opportunity to apply their knowledge to an international social justice issue through collaborative consultation, program evaluation, or clinical intervention. Capstone of the course is a two-week immersion experience in another country. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7750-8750, Enrollment in COUN or CPSY graduate programs. CPSY 8008 - Directed Readings CPSY (1-3) Individually directed reading with written report required. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. CPSY 8101 - Found Coun Psyc (3) (7684-8684). Designed to orient students and initiate their identification with the profession of Counseling Psychology; including history and future of Counseling Psychology; current issues in the field; and introduction to research, legal/ethical, and professional standards. PREREQUISITE: Enrolled in CPSY program. CPSY 8102 - Seminar In Grp Cpsy (3) (8793). Theoretical-philosophical and research base of group counseling and psychotherapy; supervised application. PREREQUISITE: Doctoral student. CPSY 8200 - Coun Psyc Practicum (3-6) (8694). Critical analysis of actual counseling interviews; various methods employed for recording and observing counseling sessions such as audio and video tapes and one-way vision screens. May be repeated for maximum of 12 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: Enrolled in CPSY program.Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CPSY 8201 - Prfsnl Issues Cpsy (3) Focus on professional identity, Counseling Psychology research, and legal/ethical issues; emphasizing professional issues, applications, and reading related to diversity and the urban environment. PREREQUISITE: Enrolled in CPSY program. CPSY 8202 - Vocational Psychology (3) (COUN 8769). Analysis of career development theory and research as applied to practice of career counseling; variables affecting career development in diverse populations. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7561 or equivalent. CPSY 8203 - Sem Coun/Coun Psy Res (3) (7683-8683). Designed to give the advanced graduate student in counseling or counseling psychology and research the opportunity to explore current research and research methodology and to design a research project. PREREQUISITES: Completion of 6 credit hours of statistics, and enrollment in CPSY PhD program or Counseling EdD program. CPSY 8204 - Coun & Coun Psyc Rsrch I (3) Intensive instruction in research design and implementation specific to Counselor Education and Counseling Psychology; addresses developing a research idea, literature review, design/methodology, data collection, writing, and supplementary topics, providing skills necessary to critique and conduct research. CPSY 8300 - Adv Prac Coun Psyc (3) Doctoral students who have completed 400 hours of required practicum will explore targeted clinical issues and populations in depth; combines didactic, experiential, and process components. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: 6 hours of CPSY 8200. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CPSY 8501 - Coun Psyc Research (1-3) (7790-8790). Supervised practice in developing, designing, conducting, writing, and reporting on a variety of investigative formats in counseling research. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: Enrolled in CPSY program or consent of the instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. CPSY 8573 - Resil/Wellns/Well Being (3) Current topics in counseling psychology. May be repeated with a change in content. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. CPSY 8575 - Adult Pers Assessmnt (3) Administration, scoring, and interpretation of psychodiagnostic instruments for individual personality assessment in adults. PREREQUISITE: CPSY 8700 or permission of instructor. CPSY 8576 - Adult Cog Assessment (3) Explores concepts of intelligence and cognition in adults, analyzes issues and controversies related to assessment of cognitive functioning, and develops competency in administration, scoring, and interpretation of assessment instruments. PREREQUISITE: Master's level assessment course or permission of instructor. CPSY 8577 - Supervisn in Coun Psyc (3) Implementation and critical analysis of theories of counseling psychology supervision, strategies associated with these theories, and assessment of supervision models; surveys research on issues related to supervision in counseling psychology. PREREQUISITE: CPSY 8200. CPSY 8578 - Constructivist Psychotherapy (3) Intensive experiential and coherence based psychotherapy course. Focus is on participation,demonstration, and clinical self awareness. Prerequisite: Counseling psychology doctoral student or consent of instructor. CPSY 8600 - Coun Psyc Seminar (1-3) Devoted to current concerns and methodology in Counseling Psychology. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: Doctoral student in Counseling, Counseling Psychology or consent of the instructor. CPSY 8700 - Intrvntns Mntl Disordrs (3) Covers assessment and diagnosis of mental disorders utilizing DSM-IV classification system and common counseling approaches for each of the major mental disorders; includes current understandings of the etiology, prevention, and treatment of each mental disorder; differential diagnosis using the DSM-IV manual; counseling approaches and case management; and psychopharmacology. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7630. CPSY 8790 - Spc Prblms in Coun Psychology (1-3) Individual investigation and report in the area of counseling psychology under the direction of a faculty member. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: Enrollment in COUN or CPSY doctor program or permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. CPSY 8798 - Soc Just Coun & CPSY I (3) Covers issues of social justice in counseling and counseling psychology and provides students with the opportunity to apply their knowledge to a local social justice issue through collaborative consultation, program evaluation, or clinical intervention. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7750-8750, Enrollment in COUN or CPSY graduate programs. CPSY 8799 - Soc Just Coun & CPSY II (3) Covers issues of social justice in counseling and counseling psychology in international settings. Provides students with the opportunity to apply their knowledge to an international social justice issue through collaborative consultation, program evalution, or clinical intervention. Capstone of the course is a two-week immersion experience in another country. PREREQUISITE: COUN 7750-8750, Enrollment in COUN or CPSY graduate programs. CPSY 8800 - Predoctoral Intrnshp (3-6) (8890). Supervised internship in setting accredited by American Psychological Association or listed in APPIC directory. May be repeated for maximum of 9 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: Completion of all coursework, comprehensive examinations, and approval of dissertation topic. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CPSY 9000 - Dissertation (1-12) Credit may be earned over a period of several semesters. The dissertation may be an organized scientific contribution or a comprehensive analysis of theory and practice in a specific area. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY AND RESEARCH (EDPR) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: EDPR 7001-06–8001-8006. Special Topics in Educational Psychology and Research. (1-3). (EDFD 7006-7015-8006-8015). Current topics in educational psychology and research. May be repeated with a change in content. EDPR 7000 - Research Project (1-6) Research project that is designed and completed under direction of student's advisor; capstone experience for Master's degree program. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. EDPR 7002 - Youth Development/Digital Era (3) This course is designed to present an advanced study of theories and research related to how individuals use communication technologies and how the usage is related to young people's psychological, social, and emotional development. Implications are for those who are concerned with optimal youth functioning and development in the digital era. EDPR 7006 - Interview Children for Researc (3) (EDFD 7006-7015-8006-8015). Current topics in educational psychology and research. May be repeated with a change in content. EDPR 7008 - Directed Readings (1-3) (EDFD 7008). Individually directed reading; written report required, may be repeated for a maximum of 9 credits. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. EDPR 7009 - Practicum Ed Psych (3-6) (EDPS 7109). Supervised experience in application of educational psychology and research principles and procedures for training activities in educational, industrial, or community settings. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor and approval of major advisor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. EDPR 7081 - Supervised Research (1-6) (EDFD 7081). Collaborative research with faculty within the major to include planning, design, management, analysis, and reporting of research. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours. PREREQUISITE: Minimum of 12 hours in major and permission of instructor Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. EDPR 7109 - Infant Development (3) (EDPS 7109-8109). Infancy and toddlerhood from developmental research issues perspective; empirical studies and contemporary issues relating to factors influencing infant development. EDPR 7110 - Erly Chldhd Dvlpmnt (3) Introduction to contemporary theories, research and issues in young children?s physical, cognitive, social, and emotional development with an emphasis on the cultural nature of development. EDPR 7111 - Child Psyc App To Educ (3) (EDPS 7111-8111). Major theories of child psychology and their implications for educational practices with the preschool and elementary school child. EDPR 7112 - Adol Psyc Appld Educ (3) (EDPS 7112-8112). Advanced study of theories and research on the physical, psychological, social, cognitive, and cultural aspects of adolescent development; implications for education, treatment, secondary school personnel, and others who live and work with adolescents. EDPR 7113 - Midlife/Adult Developmt (3) (EDPS 7113-8113). Cognitive, emotional, and psychosocial theories and research on middle age and adult development. EDPR 7114 - Psychology Of Aging (3) (EDPS 7114-8114). Cognitive, emotional, and psychosocial developmental theories of aging and implications for life-span education. EDPR 7115 - Child Dev/Begin Tchrs (3) (EDPS 7115). Theories and research on the physical, psychological, social, cognitive, and cultural aspects of early childhood and child development with emphasis on implications for preschool and elementary classroom teacher. Open only to students admitted to licensure programs. EDPR 7117 - Life-Span Human Dev (3) Theories and research on the physical, psychological/emotional, social, cognitive, and cultural aspects of human development across the life span. EDPR 7121 - Learning & Cognition (3) (EDPS 7121-8121). Major theories of learning and cognition, intelligence theories, and their application to learning environments. EDPR 7125 - Giftedness/Talent Development (3) Advanced seminar in gifted student learning and development. Special emphasis placed on understanding relevant theories and research as applied to intellectual, social, and emotional functioning among gifted learners. EDPR 7126 - Intro to Piaget's Work (3) Seminar to introduce Jean Piaget's epistemological and psychological studies. May be repeated with a change in content. EDPR 7131 - Cultural Diverse Stdnts (3) (EDPS 7131-8131). Cultural differences among American student populations; emphasis on family structure, socialization of children, and cultural influences on student behavior. EDPR 7149 - Sem Cognitive Processes (3) (EDPS 7149-8149). Classic and current learning theory research, with emphasis on recent work in cognition, constructivism, and neuropsychology applied to education. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8121. EDPR 7150 - Motivation (3) (EDPS 7150-8150). Theoretical and research viewpoints on motivation to learn; applications to educational settings. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8121 or 7/8149 or permission of instructor. EDPR 7151 - Individual Differences (3) (EDPS 7151-8151). Theoretical foundations of instructional models designed to optimize student learning; topics include theories of intelligence, theories of learning, learning styles, gender differences, cultural differences, tracking and ability grouping, assessment, response to intervention, and the use of technology. All of these topics are explored as they relate to individual differences in learning. EDPR 7155 - Understanding Respect Research (3) Seminar with an emphasis on conducting literature and empirical research to learn how to conceptualize respect and how to study various respects in school and workplace. EDPR 7161 - Moral Dvlpmnt & Educ (3) (EDPS 7161-8161). Current theory and research on moral and ethical reasoning and development across the life span and educational implications. EDPR 7165 - Social Devlpmnt/Child (3) Current theory and research on children?s social development, with an emphasis on enculturation and socialization with parents, teachers, siblings, and peers in childhood. EDPR 7511 - Measurmt & Evaluatn (3) (EDRS 7511). Test construction; item and test statistics; interpretations and applications of standardized test results; reliability and validity estimation methods; and classical and modern measurement theories. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7541-8541 or permission of the instructor. EDPR 7512 - Psychomet Thry/Ed Appl (3) (EDRS 7512-8512). Psychometric principles and applications to tests, rating scales, questionnaires, and other standardized instruments used in educational research; problems associated with evaluation of items and instruments in terms of reliability and validity. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8511 and 7/8541 or permission of instructor. EDPR 7521 - Intro to Educ Research (3) (EDRS 7521). Introduction to major concepts and processes underlying educational research; focus on knowledge necessary for critically appraising published research and preparing students as research consumers. EDPR 7523 - Applied Educ Research (1-3) (EDRS 7523-8523). Conducting and interpreting research concerned with learning and teaching; statistical and research methods, interpretation of literature, report writing, and development of proposal for research project. EDPR 7524 - Res Meths for Schl Accntblty (3) The course covers the research process to comprehend methods to use variables, data, test scores and statistics to make inferences for school accountability, teacher professional development and school improvement. PREREQUISITES: Admission to MS program in School Administration EDPR 7531 - Computer As Res Tool (3) (EDRS 7531-8531). Computer applications to research processes in education and the behavioral sciences; capabilities and limitations of computers in analysis of educational data; experience in the utilization of various (statistical) library programs. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8541; or permission of the instructor. EDPR 7541 - Stat Meth App Ed I (3) (EDRS 7541-8541). Utilization and interpretation of statistical methods applied to education; topics include frequency distributions, central tendency, variability correlation, linear regression, introduction to probability, normal distribution, interval estimation, hypothesis testing via t-test and chi-square and computer utilization in statistical analysis. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7521 or permission of instructor. EDPR 7542 - Stat Meth App Ed II (3) (EDRS 7542-8542). Includes one-way and two-way analysis of variance, a priori and post hoc tests of significance and an introduction to multiple linear regression and analysis of covariance; emphasis on student acquisition of practical intermediate univariate analytic and interpretative skills. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8541 or permission of instructor. EDPR 7543 - Res Design Analysis (3) (EDRS 8543). Includes validity of research designs, complex analysis of variance, and analysis of covariance; emphasis is on practical advanced univariate and analytic and interpretative skills. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8542 or permission of instructor. EDPR 7544 - SEM in EDU/Behav Research (3) Includes path models; path analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, and latent-variable structural equation modeling (SEM); applications of path analytic and SEM techniques in educational research. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8542 or permission of instructor. EDPR 7547 - Sampling/Survey Methods (3) Examines sampling procedures, design/administration of sample surveys; strategies (simple-random, probability, non-probability, cluster, single and multistage), effect of strategy on sampling error, confidentiality/anonymity issues, questionnaire design, interview procedures, item development, question format, preparation of survey data for statistical analysis. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7521 and 7-8542 or permission of instructor. EDPR 7551 - Intro To Eval Systems (3) (EDRS 7551-8551). Examines procedures and problems in utilization of evaluation and in identifying its purposes; treats the functions and methods of evaluation especially as affected by organizational behavior and political influences; evaluation methodology includes but is not limited to design considerations, data utilization, and concepts and methods of needs assessment. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7521 and EDPR 7/8542 or permission of instructor. EDPR 7554 - Nonparmtrc Stats Appl Educatn (3) This course will address the statistical techniques appropriate when parametric assumptions about the nature of the data are not met. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8542. EDPR 7561 - Qualitative Mthds Educ (3) (EDRS 7561-8561). This introductory course provides and overview of qualitative research processes, beginning with epistemology, theoretical perspectives, methodologies, methods, analysis, and representation, as well as current qualitative research trends in education. EDPR 7562 - Designing Qualitative Research (3) In this course, graduate students who are completing a thesis, residency project, or dissertation will design a qualitative research project with extensive peer and instructor feedback. PREREQUISITE: Students must have completed EDPR 7561-8561 with a B or above within the past two years and gain permission of the instructor. EDPR 7563 - Theoretical Frameworks in Qual (3) In this course, graduate students who are completing a thesis, residency project, or dissertation will design a qualitative research project with extensive peer and instructor feedback. PREREQUISITE: Students must have completed EDPR 7561-8561 with a B or above within the past two years and gain permission of the instructor. EDPR 7565 - Qual Methods and Analysis (3) This advanced level course provides extensive qualitative fieldwork experience. Student will also become familiar with various forms of qualitative data analysis. PREREQUISITE: Students must have completed EDPR 7561-8561 with a B or above within the past two years and gain permission of the instructor. EDPR 7566 - Writing Qualitative Research (3) This intensive, advanced writing course provides support for graduate students who are writing qualitative research manuscripts, theses, and dissertations. Students will receive frequent feedback from the instructor and peers in a structured writing retreat setting. PREREQUISITE: Students must have completed EDPR 7561-8561 with a B or above within the past two years and gain permission of the instructor. EDPR 7572 - Institutional Research (3) (EDRS 7572-8572). Techniques of institutional analysis in designing self-studies, evaluating the teaching and learning environment and institutional planning. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7521 and EDPR 7/8542 or permission of instructor. EDPR 7581 - Behav Anlys/Case Dsgn (3) Reviews essential theory, logic, concepts, principles, methods, and ethics of single-subject designs as they relate to behavior analysis. PREREQUISITE:SPED 7514-8514. EDPR 7732 - Randomized Clinical Trials (3) The purpose of this course is to provide students with a thorough grounding in the conduct of randomized clinical trials including design, management, evaluation, and resource acquisition. EDPR 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Prospectus must be approved by the faculty committee directing this research study. Application for writing thesis must be filed with the Director of Graduate Studies. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. EDPR 8001 - Hierarchical Linear Modeling (3) this advanced-level doctoral seminar will examine key feminist research methodology texts ranging from first-wave feminism to curent-day to study both the limits and possibilities of those texts in qualitative research education. EDPR 8002 - Youth Development/Digital Era (3) This course is designed to present an advanced study of theories and research related to how individuals use communication technologies and how the usage is related to young people's psychological, social, and emotional development. Implications are for those who are concerned with optimal youth functioning and development in the digital era. EDPR 8004 - Report Qualitative Data (3) (EDFD 7006-7015-8006-8015). Current topics in educational psychology and research. May be repeated with a change in content. EDPR 8006 - Interview Children for Researc (3) practice of distribution-free or nonparametric statistical tests used in hypothesis testing. Such procedures are those in which there are not stringent assumptions made about the population from which the data were sampled. Prior experience with SPSS is assumed but the essential information needed to conduct SPSS analyses will be provided. EDPR 8008 - Directed Readings (1-3) (EDFD 7008). Individually directed reading; written report required, may be repeated for a maximum of 9 credits. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. EDPR 8009 - Practicum Ed Psych (3-6) (EDPS 7109). Supervised experience in application of educational psychology and research principles and procedures for training activities in educational, industrial, or community settings. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor and approval of major advisor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. EDPR 8081 - Supervised Research (1-6) (EDFD 7081). Collaborative research with faculty within the major to include planning, design, management, analysis, and reporting of research. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours. PREREQUISITE: Minimum of 12 hours in major and permission of instructor Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. EDPR 8109 - Infant Development (3) (EDPS 7109-8109). Infancy and toddlerhood from developmental research issues perspective; empirical studies and contemporary issues relating to factors influencing infant development. EDPR 8110 - Erly Chldhd Dvlpmnt (3) Introduction to contemporary theories, research and issues in young children?s physical, cognitive, social, and emotional development with an emphasis on the cultural nature of development. EDPR 8111 - Child Psyc App To Ed (3) (EDPS 7111-8111). Major theories of child psychology and their implications for educational practices with the preschool and elementary school child. EDPR 8112 - Adol Psyc Appld Educ (3) (EDPS 7112-8112). Advanced study of theories and research on the physical, psychological, social, cognitive, and cultural aspects of adolescent development; implications for education, treatment, secondary school personnel, and others who live and work with adolescents. EDPR 8113 - Midlife/Adult Developmt (3) (EDPS 7113-8113). Cognitive, emotional, and psychosocial theories and research on middle age and adult development. EDPR 8114 - Psychology Of Aging (3) (EDPS 7114-8114). Cognitive, emotional, and psychosocial developmental theories of aging and implications for life-span education. EDPR 8117 - Life-Span Human Develop (3) Theories and research on the physical, psychological/emotional, social, cognitive, and cultural aspects of human development across the life span. EDPR 8121 - Learning & Cognition (3) (EDPS 7121-8121). Major theories of learning and cognition, intelligence theories, and their application to learning environments. EDPR 8125 - Giftedness/Talent Development (3) Advanced seminar in gifted student learning and development. Special emphasis placed on understanding relevant theories and research as applied to intellectual, social, and emotional functioning among gifted learners. EDPR 8126 - Intro to Piaget's Work (3) Seminar to introduce Jean Piaget's epistemological and psychological studies. May be repeated wiith a change in content. EDPR 8131 - Cultural Diverse Stdnts (3) (EDPS 7131-8131). Cultural differences among American student populations; emphasis on family structure, socialization of children, and cultural influences on student behavior. EDPR 8149 - Sem Cognitive Processes (3) (EDPS 7149-8149). Classic and current learning theory research, with emphasis on recent work in cognition, constructivism, and neuropsychology applied to education. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8121. EDPR 8150 - Motivation (3) (EDPS 7150-8150). Theoretical and research viewpoints on motivation to learn; applications to educational settings. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8121 or 7/8149 or permission of instructor. EDPR 8151 - Individual Differences (3) (EDPS 7151-8151). Theoretical foundations of instructional models designed to optimize student learning; topics include theories of intelligence, theories of learning, learning styles, gender differences, cultural differences, tracking and ability grouping, assessment, response to intervention, and the use of technology. All of these topics are explored as they relate to individual differences in learning. EDPR 8155 - Understanding Respect Research (3) Seminar with an emphasis on conducting literature and empirical research to learn how to conceptualize respect and how to study various respects in school and workplace. EDPR 8161 - Moral Dvlpmnt & Educ (3) (EDPS 7161-8161). Current theory and research on moral and ethical reasoning and development across the life span and educational implications. EDPR 8165 - Social Devlpmnt/Child (3) Current theory and research on children?s social development, with an emphasis on enculturation and socialization with parents, teachers, siblings, and peers in childhood. EDPR 8171 - Pro Sem in Edu Psychology (3) (EDPS 8171). This course is designed to provide Educational Psychology doctoral students with an introduction to both the field of Educational Psychology and the program in Educational Psychology and Research. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor EDPR 8511 - Measurmt & Evaluatn (3) (EDRS 7511). Test construction; item and test statistics; interpretations and applications of standardized test results; reliability and validity estimation methods; and classical and modern measurement theories. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7541-8541 or permission of the instructor. EDPR 8512 - Psychomet Thry/Ed Appl (3) (EDRS 7512-8512). Psychometric principles and applications to tests, rating scales, questionnaires, and other standardized instruments used in educational research; problems associated with evaluation of items and instruments in terms of reliability and validity. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8511 and 7/8541 or permission of instructor. EDPR 8519 - Sem In Educ Measurement (3) (EDRS 8519) Systematic investigation of current multivariate methods in the field of educational statistics. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8542 or permissions of instructor. EDPR 8531 - Computer As Res Tool (3) (EDRS 7531-8531). Computer applications to research processes in education and the behavioral sciences; capabilities and limitations of computers in analysis of educational data; experience in the utilization of various (statistical) library programs. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8541; or permission of the instructor. EDPR 8541 - Stat Meth App Ed I (3) (EDRS 7541-8541). Utilization and interpretation of statistical methods applied to education; topics include frequency distributions, central tendency, variability correlation, linear regression, introduction to probability, normal distribution, interval estimation, hypothesis testing via t-test and chi-square and computer utilization in statistical analysis. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7521 or permission of instructor. EDPR 8542 - Stat Meth App Ed II (3) (EDRS 7542-8542). Includes one-way and two-way analysis of variance, a priori and post hoc tests of significance and an introduction to multiple linear regression and analysis of covariance; emphasis on student acquisition of practical intermediate univariate analytic and interpretative skills. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8541 or permission of instructor. EDPR 8543 - Res Design Analysis (3) (EDRS 8543). Includes validity of research designs, complex analysis of variance, and analysis of covariance; emphasis is on practical advanced univariate and analytic and interpretative skills. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8542 or permission of instructor. EDPR 8544 - SEM in EDU/Behav Research (3) Includes path models; path analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, and latent-variable structural equation modeling (SEM); applications of path analytic and SEM techniques in educational research. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8542 or permission of instructor. EDPR 8547 - Sampling/Survey Methods (3) Examines sampling procedures, design/administration of sample surveys; strategies (simple-random, probability, non-probability, cluster, single and multistage), effect of strategy on sampling error, confidentiality/anonymity issues, questionnaire design, interview procedures, item development, question format, preparation of survey data for statistical analysis. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7521 and 7-8542 or permission of instructor. EDPR 8549 - Multivariate Meth Educ (3) (EDRS 8549). Systematic investigation of current multivariate methods in the field of educational statistics. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8542 or permission of instructor. EDPR 8551 - Intro To Eval Systems (3) (EDRS 7551-8551). Examines procedures and problems in utilization of evaluation and in identifying its purposes; treats the functions and methods of evaluation especially as affected by organizational behavior and political influences; evaluation methodology includes but is not limited to design considerations, data utilization, and concepts and methods of needs assessment. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7521 and EDPR 7/8542 or permission of instructor. EDPR 8554 - Nonparmtrc Stats Appl Educatn (3) This course will address the statistical techniques appropriate when parametric assumptions about the nature of the data are not met. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7/8542. EDPR 8561 - Qualitative Mthds Educ (3) (EDRS 7561-8561). This introductory course provides and overview of qualitative research processes, beginning with epistemology, theoretical perspectives, methodologies, methods, analysis, and representation, as well as current qualitative research trends in education. EDPR 8562 - Designing Qualitative Research (3) In this course, graduate students who are completing a thesis, residency project, or dissertation will design a qualitative research project with extensive peer and instructor feedback. PREREQUISITE: Students must have completed EDPR 7561-8561 with a B or above within the past two years and gain permission of the instructor. EDPR 8563 - Theoretical Frameworks in Qual (3) In this course, graduate students who are completing a thesis, residency project, or dissertation will design a qualitative research project with extensive peer and instructor feedback. PREREQUISITE: Students must have completed EDPR 7561-8561 with a B or above within the past two years and gain permission of the instructor. EDPR 8565 - Qual Methods and Analysis (3) This advanced level course provides extensive qualitative fieldwork experience. Student will also become familiar with various forms of qualitative data analysis. PREREQUISITE: Students must have completed EDPR 7561-8561 with a B or above within the past two years and gain permission of the instructor. EDPR 8566 - Writing Qualitative Research (3) This intensive, advanced writing course provides support for graduate students who are writing qualitative research manuscripts, theses, and dissertations. Students will receive frequent feedback from the instructor and peers in a structured writing retreat setting. PREREQUISITE: Students must have completed EDPR 7561-8561 with a B or above within the past two years and gain permission of the instructor. EDPR 8572 - Institutional Research (3) (EDRS 7572-8572). Techniques of institutional analysis in designing self-studies, evaluating the teaching and learning environment and institutional planning. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7521 and EDPR 7/8542 or permission of instructor. EDPR 8581 - Behav Anlys/Case Dsgn (3) Reviews essential theory, logic, concepts, principles, methods, and ethics of single-subject designs as they relate to behavior analysis. PREREQUISITE:SPED 7514-8514. EDPR 8732 - Randomized Clinical Trials (3) The purpose of this course is to provide students with a thorough grounding in the conduct of randomized clinical trials including design, management, evaluation, and resource acquisition. EDPR 9000 - Dissertation (1-12) (EDFD 9000). Independent research for Doctoral degree. Credit may be earned over a period of several semesters. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .