#http://www.memphis.edu/uofmonline/fees.php
UofM Online Fees - UofM Online - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Online Programs Orientation Online Readiness Resources About AtoZ List Home UofM Online UofM Online Fees Please refer to the fee schedules for current information and tuition estimator. Tuition is charged for each credit course offered by the University of Memphis and is assessed based on the students matriculation level (UG/GR/Law). Online program courses (sections Mxx, Rxx) have the same tuition fee rates as on-campus course sections. However, these online program course sections are assesses an online fee on a per hour basis, with no maximum, and are in addition to on-campus fees. The on-campus program service fee is not assessed for online programs course sections. Out-of-state students: eRate tuition (out-of-state fees) will be assessed at a per hour rate with no maximum for all out-of-state students who are enrolled solely in online courses with instructional method "web" (sections Mxx, Rxx, *4xx, *5xx) for the semester that fees are incurred. Out-of-state students who are enrolled in both on-campus and online courses will not be eligible for eRate and will be assessed the full out-of-state tuition per hour rate. Students that are eligible for eRate and enroll in courses with Mxx sections will not have to pay online program fees, but will have to pay college- or program- specific course fees (ex. Business Course Fees) as noted on the Bursar's fee charts. RODP online program fees will be assessed in addition to the eRate. ***Please note that courses with sections 4xx and 5xx and instructional method of "web" will be assessed at the on-campus rate including program service fees. These courses are not assessed the online program fee.*** To get complete information on payment of tuition and fees, please see the explanation of fees at Financial aid and military assistance can be applied to any online program. UofM Online Program Fees (Mxx) are not covered by Graduate Assistantship fee waivers, PC-191, or Staff Scholarships. Students taking any online course must follow all University of Memphis guidelines and deadlines for fee payment. Be sure to consult with your financial aid counselor or scholarship administrator for more information. Fees are subject to change without notice. The University will usually collect the amount of fees due at the time of fee satisfaction in accordance with the residency classification and fee rates in effect. UofM Online News University of Memphis Online Master's Program is Ranked Among the Best in Nation by ACO. UofM Online Undergraduate Programs Click to View the Fully Online Undergraduate Degree Programs offered at the University of Memphis UofM Online Graduate Programs Click to View the Fully Online Graduate Degree Programs offered at the University of Memphis Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .