#http://www.memphis.edu/afrotc/privacy-notice/
Privacy Notice - Air Force ROTC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps Prospective Cadets Cadre &amp; Staff Photo Gallery Scholarships Resources &amp; Links Home Air Force ROTC Privacy Notice Privacy and Security Notice This Air Force ROTC Detachment 785 Website is provided as a public service by the University of Memphis. Information presented on the Detachment 785 Website is considered public information and may be distributed or copied. Use of appropriate byline/photo/image credits is requested. Information concerning visitors, use of this site is collected for analytical and statistical purposes, such as assessing what information is of most and least interest, determining technical design specifications, and identifying system performance or problem areas. For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains available to all users, this government computer system employs software programs to monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage. Raw data logs will only be used to identify individual users and their usage habits for authorized law enforcement investigations or national security purposes. These logs are scheduled for regular destruction in accordance with National Archives and Records Administration Guidelines. Unauthorized attempts to deny service, upload information, change information, or to attempt to access a non-public site from this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under Title 18 of the U.S. Code to include the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information Infrastructure Protection Act. If you have any questions or comments about the information presented here, please forward them to us. The Presence of Commercial/External Links The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the United States Air Force, the Defense Technical Information Center, or the Department of Defense of this Web site, or the information, products or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) sites, the United States Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links are provided consistent with the stated purpose of the Website. FOIA Notice The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program is mandated by Congress and applies to all governmental agencies. The program allows the public to request information pertaining to an agency's functions, practices, and future plans. Anyone may request records under the FOIA. Public disclosure is mandatory unless exempted under Title 5 U.S.C. 552. In accordance with the Electronic Freedom of Information Act Amendments of 1996, agencies have 20 work days to respond to a FOIA request. As a general rule, the Air Force will not deliver unofficial mass mailings addressed to individuals at their duty addresses. Cookie Disclaimer A "cookie" is a small piece of information (token) sent by a Web server and stored on a user's system (hard drive) so it can later be read back from that system. Using cookies is a convenient technique for having the browser remember some specific information. Cookies may be categorized as "session" or "persistent" cookies. "Session" cookies are temporary cookies that are used to maintain context or "state" between otherwise stateless Web transactions (e.g., to maintain a "shopping basket" of goods selected during a single logical session at a site) and that must be deleted at the end of the web session in which they are created. "Persistent" cookies remain over time and can be used for a variety of purposes, including to track a user's access over time and across Websites, or to establish user preferences. This Website does not use persistent cookies, i.e., tokens that pass information back and forth from your machine to the server and remain after you close your browser. This Website does use session cookies, i.e., tokens that remain active only until you close your browser, in order to (make the site easier for you to use). No database of information obtained from these cookies is kept and when you close your browser, the cookie is deleted from your computer. This Website uses cookies to save you time in filling out forms, to maintain a relationship between the image and the correct link. You can chose not to accept these cookies and still use the site, but (you may need to enter the same information repeatedly and clicking on the banners will not take you to the correct page). The help information in your browser software should provide you with instruction on how to disable cookies. DET 785 Brochure What's it like being in the Air Force Reserved Officer Training? Can I get a scholarship? These questions and more are answered here... Careers and Pay Air Force ROTC prepares you to become an Officer in the United States Air Force. Find out more about your promising future as an Officer. Privacy and Security Notice Information presented on the Detachment 785 Website is considered public information and may be distributed or copied. Contact Us Main office contact and location. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .