#https://umdrive.memphis.edu/g-training/Mediasite/mymediasite.pdf
Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 1 of 5 My Mediasite & Mediasite Desktop Recorder Mediasite is a media service that allows users to upload, manage, and record media. Recordings can be done with the use of the Mediasite Desktop Recorder (MDR) . From a My Mediasite accoun t, users can create , upload, edit, and manage all of their presentation s . Instructions on Requesting an Account To get access submit a umTech Service Desk request ticket and then select the appropriate option; Teaching & Learning or Non - Teaching Purposes. Please have ready your class section, term, etc . information if for teaching purposes. You will then be contacte d with your login information. Navigating My MediaSite When you first log in to My Mediasite, Everything will be selected in the folder window on the left side of the screen. The folder window allows you to access previously created presentations. By default, all of the presentations you create will be saved to the Private folder. Under Folders , you can use the Add Folder button to create new folders and organize your presentations. The main portion of the screen displays all of your content. From here you can view b asic information for your video such as: title, date, duration, and the total number of views. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 2 of 5 Upload Media Upload media allows you to upload a previously recorded Flash, QuickTime, AVI, Windows Media, or MPEG - 4 video. Upload Media: 1. Click Create Presentation and select Upload Media . 2. Enter a Name and Description for your presentation and click either Select Video , or Save and Upload Later . 3. Navigate to the Video you want to upload and click Open . 4. Once your Upload has finished, you can Share, Edit, or set permissions for your video. 5. Click Save . Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 3 of 5 Creating with the Desktop Recorder To create a presentation is with the Mediasite Desktop Recorder (MDR) you will need to download the Recorder file . If y ou have not installed the MDR, Mediasite will prompt you t o download it, or you can click Download the Desktop Recorder and follow the on screen prompts. To begin, select a folder, and click Create Prese ntation . A window will open displaying your options for creating a presentation. In this situation, you would select Record Desktop . Record Desktop Record desktop allo ws you to use the Mediasite Des ktop Recorder to create presentations. To Record Desktop: Click Create Presentation and select Record Desktop . Enter a Name and Description for your presentation and click Launch Desktop Recorder. (If you receive an External Protocol Request , select Launch Application .) Select Record in the MDR window. Select the type of recording you want to create, and click Next . Next, set your desired hardware settings. This includes camera size, camera input, and microphone input. Follow the on screen prompts to prepare your screen and select your capture area. Next, verify your settings and click Record . Your recording will begin after the 5 second countdown has finished . You can pause your recording by pressing ctrl+F8 , or you can click pause in the MDR control panel. Pausing your video give s you the option to Discard Recording, Resume Recording, or Finish Recording. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 4 of 5 Managing Presentations There are a variety of ways that you can update the settings for presentations that your have recorded or uploaded. Detai led instructions with screen captures can be found online at UoM Mediasite Training. Brief instructions have been provided in this document. Update Presentation Navigate to the presentation that you want to edit. Click on the thumbnail o f the presentation to view its s ummary. Click the Edit tab . After you have updated your presentation, click Save . Share a Presentation Navigate to the presentation that you want to share. Click on the thumbnail of the presentation to view its summary. Click the Share tab. There are three ways to share your presentation: 1. Copy and paste the URL into an email, social network, etc. 2. Copy and paste the embed code in to a website. 3. Email the presentation directly. View Presentation Data Navigate to the presentation. Click the thumbnail of the presentation to view its summary. Click the Analytics tab. Select either Dashboard or . Select Download Report Edit Video or Slides. Navigate to the video you want to edit. Click the thumbnail of the presentation to view its summary. Click Edit Video or Edit Slides . The editor will launch in a separate window and allow you to make your desired edits. Updated: 10 / 10 /2014 Page 5 of 5 Set Presentation Permissions Navigate to the presentation that you want to secure. Click the thumbnail of the presentation to view its summary. Click the Security tab. Select Click here to edit permissions . Enter a full name or UUID to add. Click Save . Note : Users can set permissions to one video at a time. To set permissions for a class list , please contact the umTech Service Desk with your request at 901.678.8888. Delete a Presentation Navigate to the presentation you want to delete. Click the thumbnail of the presentat ion to view its summary. Click Delete . Click OK to confirm. Creating and Managing Catalogs You can create catalogs in order to publish your own presentations. While other users cannot view your catalogs , you can give a private audience a viewing link. Create a Catalog While in List view, click the + button next to My Catalogs . Enter a Channel Name and click the + to create your catalog . Edit a Catalog While in List view, click the pencil icon next to the catalog name . After you have edited the catalo g , click Save . Edit Catalog Permissions While in List view, click the pencil icon next to the catalog Click the Security tab. Enter a name , email , or group name , select a role from the list and click A dd . Click Save . Additional Information Additional information on My Mediasite and the Mediasite Desktop Recorder can be found in the Mediasite Getting Starte d Guide .