#http://www.memphis.edu/chem/about/seminars.php
Departmental Seminar Schedule - F2015 - Department of Chemistry - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Chemistry About Programs People Research Resources About Welcome Letter Apply News Grants &amp; Awards Facilities Publications Outreach Chemistry Careers Home Department of Chemistry About Departmental Seminar Schedule - F2015 Departmental Seminar Schedule - Fall 2015 Our weekly Departmental Seminar series occurs every Friday afternoon (excluding holidays, cancellations, etc.) The seminar is located in Smith Chemistry Room 102. Seminar begins at 1:30 PM with refreshments, coffee, and opportunities to chat with the seminar speaker and fellow members of the Department. At 2:00 PM, the Seminar begins and typically lasts 50 minutes + 5-10 minutes of Q&amp;A. Please join us! Please contact William Alexander , Seminar Coordinator, for requests for accommodations, general information, or if you would like to present in our seminar series. Date Seminar Speaker Home Institution of Speaker Title 9/4/2015 Emily Pentzer Case Western University Using Synthetic Chemistry to Control Molecules: Janus Nanosheets and New Monomers for Radical Polymerization 9/11/2015 Recruiting Seminar Ice Cream Social! All are welcome! 9/18/2015 Alvin Holder Old Dominion University Solving some of the World's problems with inorganic elements. Continuation of a battle 9/25/2015 TBA 10/2/2015 Kirk Peterson Washington State University Ab initio thermochemistry and spectroscopy for molecules containing f-block elements 10/9/2015 Dave Piston Washington University in St. Louis Imaging the Molecular Mechanisms of Insulin Secretion 10/16/2015 Claudio Verani Wayne State University New Cobalt-based Electrocatalysts for Proton/Water Reduction as Precursors for Heterobimetallic [RuCo] Photocatalysts 10/23/2015 Will Eckenhoff Rhodes College Homogeneous Molybdenum Complexes for Light Driven Hydrogen Production 10/30/2015 Megan Bennett Argonne National Laboratory Element Synthesis: From Element Discovery to Medical Radioisotopes 11/6/2015 SWRM/SERMACS No Seminar No Seminar 11/10/2015 Ryan Davison ACS Office of Public Affairs Special Tuesday Seminar - How Politics are Impacting Chemistry and Basic Research 11/13/2015 Noel Harris University of Memphis TBA 11/20/2015 Dylan Benningfield University of Memphis TBA 11/27/2015 Happy Thanksgiving! No Seminar No Seminar About Welcome Letter Apply News Grants &amp; Awards Facilities Publications Outreach Chemistry Careers Apply to the Department of Chemistry Now accepting applications for graduate school! Contact us! Call us (901.678.2621) or stop by the Departmental office at Smith Chemistry Rm 210 Seminar Schedule F2015 Click here for the Fall Seminar schedule! What's new? Click here to see what's new in our Department! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .