#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/ccfa/arth.php
ARTH - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions ARTH ARTH (ARTH) ART HISTORY Department of Art Richard A. Lou, M.F.A., Chair Room 201, Jones Hall In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ARTH 4030-39. Special Topics in Art History. (1-3). Topics are varied and in online class listings. May be repeated to a maximum of 9 hours credit when topic varies. ARTH 2010 - World Art I (3) (2101). Development of visual arts from prehistoric times through medieval period, their use by man as social, cultural, and educational force; brief survey of art of Far East. [G] ARTH 2020 - World Art II (3) (2102). Continues World Art I; development of visual arts from medieval period through Renaissance to present. [G] ARTH 2030 - Visual Studies/Indigenous Arts (3) Arts and visual cultures of peoples of Africa, Oceania, and Native North America. ARTH 4030 - Chinese Art and Culture (3) The course proceeds chronologically, from Neolithic through modern times, and topically in analyzing Chinese visual culture. Topics range from ritual jade and bronze arts to the dynastic art of Quin and Han empires, and from the emergence of Buddhist and Daoist artistic and architectural types to the evolution of secular arts of calligraphy and painting. Other media that will be examined include ceramics, lacquers, and woodblock printing. Art works are examined in their political, social, historical and religious context. ARTH 4035 - Great Bronze Age of China (3) Visual culture and politics of East Asia including present day China, Korea, and Japan from early objects such as Yangshao pottery of 2300 BCE to the propaganda posters of the Cultural Revolution in the mid-20th century. ARTH 4037 - Conflict & Culture Amer Art (3) Design and ornament in Islamic art from the perspective of history, aesthetics, and the creative process. ARTH 4111 - Art/Archaeology of Egypt (3) Predynastic to Late Period. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2010 or permission of instructor. ARTH 4112 - Egypt Art-Old Kingdom (3) Art, architecture, and archaeology, 3000-1500 B.C. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2010, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4113 - Egypt Art-New Kingdom (3) Art, architecture, and archaeology, 1500 B.C.-642 A.D. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2010, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4119 - Late Antique/Islamic Art/Egypt (3) Pharaonic and Hellensitic roots of Coptic Art, its 3rd and 4th century AD flourishing, place within the larger milieu of the Byzantine Empire's culture and artistic expression, interaction with the Late Antique arts of the Eastern Mediterranean, and influence on the Islamic Art of Egypt. ARTH 4121 - Ancient Art Near East (3) Architecture, sculpture, painting, and the minor arts in Mesopotamia, Anatolia, and Syria Palestine. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2010, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4123 - Greek Art (3) Architecture, sculpture and painting from the Bronze Age to the end of the Hellenistic period. ARTH 4124 - Roman Art (3) Architecture, sculpture and painting from Etruscan Rome to the fall of the Empire. ARTH 4125 - Art/Archaeology Pompeii (3) Pompeii's excavations, art, artifacts and architecture in reconstructing ancient Roman daily life. ARTH 4129 - Ancient/Medieval Architecture (3) Selected topics comparing the architecture of ancient Egypt, the Classical world, and Medieval Europe. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2010. ARTH 4130 - Art/Medieval World (3) Architecture, sculpture, and painting, including manuscript illumination of the middle ages; Western European and Byzantine traditions. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2010, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4131 - Art/Early Middle Ages (3) Advanced study of architecture, sculpture and painting of the early medieval period. PREREQUlSlTE: ARTH 2010, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4134 - Art/High Middle Ages (3) Advanced study of architecture, sculpture and painting, including manuscript illumination, ivories and stained glass in the Romanesque and Gothic periods. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2010, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4141 - Early Renaissance Italy (3) Architecture, sculpture and painting of Italy, 1300-1510. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2010, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4142 - North Renaissance Art (3) Fifteenth Century Art in Northern Europe; emphasis on panel painting, manuscript illumination and printmaking. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2010, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4143 - High Renaissance Italy (3) Sixteenth Century Art in Italy; highlights works of Michelangelo, Raphael, Titian, and the Mannerists. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2020, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4146 - Baroque Art (3) Architecture, sculpture, and painting produced in Europe during Seventeenth Century. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2020 or permission of instructor. ARTH 4148 - Neo-Class/Romanticism (3) Western European art, ca. 1760-1850 emphasizing painting, sculpture, and art theory. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2020 ,or permission of instructor. ARTH 4149 - Realism & Impressionism (3) Western European art, ca. 1850-1880, emphasizing painting, sculpture and art theory. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2020, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4152 - Early Modern Art (3) Movements in Western art and art theory, 1880-1905 which are the foundation of 20th century modernism, Symbolism and Post-Impressionism. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2020, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4153 - Cubism through Surrealism (3) History of avant-garde art before World War II. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2020, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4155 - High Modern Art (3) American and European art and art theory 1940-1968, emphasizing the development of modernism. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2020, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4157 - Contemp Art/Theory/Criticism (3) Historical movements, theory and criticism: 1968 to present. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2020, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4158 - Modern Architecture (3) Survey of 19th century styles, 20th century masters, and contemporary developments in architecture; historic preservation. ARTH 4160 - Architecture and Nature (3) Survey and analysis of spaces in a variety of cultures from world history where the relationship between the natural and the built environment is healthy. ARTH 4162 - Latin American Art (3) Hispanic arts of the Americas from 1500 to the present in relation to Iberian and Indian traditions. ARTH 4163 - Pre-Columbian Art (3) Ancient art of Mexico, Central America and South America from about 1000 B. C. to European contact. ARTH 4166 - History of American Art (3) American art examined in social, cultural and historical contexts; broad range of creative expression, including fine arts, architecture, folk art, film, furniture, popular culture; covers the period of conquest to modern developments. PREREQUISITE: ARTH 2020, or permission of instructor. ARTH 4181 - Arts Africa/Oceania/N America (3) Survey of the arts created by native Americans of U.S. and Canada, peoples of sub-Saharan Africa and Pacific islands, examined in relation to their cultural context and heritage. ARTH 4183 - Visual Arts of Africa (3) Survey of the arts of the African continent from pre-historic to the modern era; African aesthetic traditions in relation to social and cultural contexts. ARTH 4184 - Arts of Colonialism/Empire (3) Major themes in the study of African Diaspora art, artists, and visual culture, specifically the histories of migration, dispersal, and mobility of peoples of African descent both within and outside the continent; aesthetics, race and representation, politics, gender, class differences, sexuality, strategies of resistance, cross-cultural influences, issues of patronage, and cultural identity formation. ARTH 4185 - African American Art (3) Introduction to African American visual expression and culture from Colonial to the modern era, including fine arts, photography, film and popular culture. ARTH 4186 - Afr American Diaspora Cinema (3) Visual culture that examines significant themes in US film history focusing on the development of African American cinema, and filmed representations of the African American experience. The history of African American film production is considered within historical, cultural, social, and political contexts. Readings in film criticism and theory examine the development of African American cinema as a particular genre of film and aesthetic expression. Diversity and difference are critical themes in the representation of race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, and class in cinema, a quintessentially American art form. From an interdisciplinary and comparative perspective, film representative of the broader African Diaspora will also be examined. ARTH 4187 - Af Am Diaspora Photo Culture (3) African American photographic experience from the 19th century to the presient time; exploration of the politics of representation in the history of American photography by examining blacks as subjects, creators, and theorists of a diverse range of visual "texts"; daguerreotypes, photo-essays, installations, and image-text collaborations, and the photographic traditions of portraiture, Colonialist photography, street photography, social documentary, Civil Rights photography, photo-journalism and commercial photography like photographs and magazine advertisements. ARTH 4195 - Proseminar Art History (3) Investigation of selected topics in art history with emphasis on development of research techniques and methodologies. Oral presentation and writing of thesis paper. PREREQUISITE: senior status with 18 semester hours in art history. ARTH 4197 - Adv Indiv Research/ARTH (3) May be repeated for credit when topic varies. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ARTH 4381 - Art Curatorial Techniques (3) Curatorial responsibilities and functions: receiving and shipping methods, registration, physical and environmental security, research, conservation, and study of art market and publications. ARTH 4386 - Introduction to Museums (3) (Same as HIST 4386). History of museums and how they function in society; development of major collections and roles of museums as centers of research, education, and as interpreters of social values; presentations by museum professionals and visits to area museums. ARTH 4660 - Museum Collections (3) (Same as ANTH 4660). Theory, methods, collection policy, development, preservation, documentation, interpretation of museum collections. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ARTH 4662 - Museum Exhibitions (3) (Same as ANTH 4662). Exhibition methods and theory, including research, design, layout, object selection and handling, installation, public programming and evaluation. May not be repeated for credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ARTH 4721 - History Photography I (3) Survey of history and theory of photography since its invention in the 19th century. ARTH 4722 - History Photography II (3) Historical and critical issues in photography from World War I to the present. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .