#http://bf.memphis.edu/forms/procurement/clinical_affiliation_agreement.php
U of M : Procurement and Contract Services CLINICAL AFFILIATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS AND This Agreement is made this day of , 20 , by and between University of Memphis, hereinafter referred to as "Institution" and , hereinafter referred to as "Affiliate". Whereas, it is to the mutual benefit of the parties to provide clinical experience for students enrolled in certain programs of the Institution, the parties have agreed to the terms and provisions set forth below: Purpose - the purpose of this Agreement shall be to provide clinical experience to students enrolled in the program of the Institution. Consideration for this Agreement shall consist of the mutual promises contained herein, the parties agreeing that monetary compensation shall neither be expected nor received by either party. The clinical experience shall be provided at the Affiliate's Facility located at , hereinafter referred to as "Facility". The specific experience to be provided students is described as follows: Terms and Conditions - pursuant to the above-stated purpose, the parties agree as follows: Term - the term of this Agreement shall be (from one to five years) commencing and ending . Either party may terminate this Agreement upon giving days written notice to the other party. Such termination shall have no effect on students receiving clinical experience during the current academic term. This Agreement may be renewed with written approval of all parties for a total term of up to five years. Placement of Students - As mutually agreed between the parties, the Institution will place an appropriate number of students at the Facility each academic term. Discipline - While enrolled in clinical experience at the Facility, students (and faculty, if applicable), will be subject to applicable policies of the Institution and the Affiliate. Students shall be dismissed from participation in the Institution's program only after the appropriate disciplinary or academic policies and procedures of the Institution have been followed. However, the Affiliate may immediately remove from the Facility any student who poses an immediate threat or danger. Specific Responsibilities - The following duties shall be the specific responsibility of the designated party (Institution and/or Facility): Institution shall be responsible for the selection of students to be placed at the Facility. The ( Institution / Facility) shall provide orientation to the Facility for students beginning clinical experience. The ( Institution / Facility) shall be responsible for scheduling training activities for students. The ( Institution / Facility) shall be responsible for supervising students at all times while present at the Facility for clinical experience. The ( Institution / Facility) shall evaluate the performance of individual students as appropriate. The Affiliate shall retain complete responsibility for patient care providing adequate supervision of students (and faculty, if applicable) at all times. The Affiliate shall maintain a sufficient level of staff employees to carry out regular duties. Students will not be expected nor allowed to perform services in lieu of staff employees. The Affiliate shall provide emergency medical treatment to students (and faculty, if applicable) if needed for illness or injuries suffered during clinical experience. Such treatment shall be at the expense of the individual treated. The Affiliate shall maintain all applicable accreditation requirements and certify such compliance to the Institution or other entity as requested by the Institution. The Affiliate shall also permit authorities responsible for accreditation of the Institution's curriculum to inspect the Affiliate's clinical facilities and services as necessary. The Institution shall provide health records of students (and faculty, if applicable) upon request by the Affiliate. The Institution shall establish a procedure for notifying the Affiliate if a student (or faculty, if applicable) is/are unable for any reason to report for clinical training. The Affiliate requires written evidence of professional liability insurance coverage from individual students and faculty and staff (if applicable) participating in the experience. The minimum amount of coverage per individual shall be . The coverage shall extend through the term of the student's and faculty or staff's (if applicable) participation. The State of Tennessee is self-insured and does not carry or maintain commercial general liability insurance or medical, professional or hospital liability insurance. Any and all claims against the State of Tennessee, including the Institution or its employees, shall be heard and determined by the Tennessee Claims Commission in the manner prescribed by law. Damages recoverable against the Institution shall be expressly limited to claims paid by the Claims Commission pursuant to T.C.A. Section 9-8-301 et seq. Mutual responsibilities - the parties shall cooperate to fulfill the following mutual responsibilities: Each party shall comply with all federal, state and municipal laws, advice, rules and regulations which are applicable to the performance of this Agreement, which shall include but not be limited to: HIPAA Requirements: To the extent required by federal law, the parties agree to comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as codified at 42 U.S.C. Section 1320d (&quot;HIPAA&quot;) and any current and future regulations promulgated thereunder, including without limitation, the federal privacy regulations, the federal security standards, and the federal standards for electronic transactions, all collectively referred to herein as &quot;HIPAA Requirements.&quot; The parties agree not to use or further disclose any Protected Health Information or Individually Identifiable Health Information, other than as permitted by HIPAA Requirements and the terms of this Agreement. Each party will make its internal practices, books, and records relating to the use and disclosure of Protected Health Information available to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to the extent required for determining compliance with the Federal Privacy Regulations. Background Checks: If criminal background checks of students are required by the Affiliate, the Institution shall notify students of this requirement prior to enrollment in the program or as soon as the requirement is known. Students will be informed by the Institution that the check must be completed within the 90 day period immediately prior to the student's initial clinical placement. It shall be the student's responsibility to make timely arrangements for the background check and to pay all costs associated with such checks. If criminal background checks are required for Institutional faculty or staff, it shall be the Institution's responsibility to arrange for the background check, to pay all costs associated with such checks and to provide the results to the Affiliate. It shall be the responsibility of Affiliate to set the eligibility standards for participation and to evaluate the results of the background checks. If Affiliate determines that a student or faculty /staff member shall not participate at its facility, Affiliate shall so notify that individual and the Institution. Institution shall take steps to ensure that this individual does not participate in the clinical program at the Affiliate. If an Institutional faculty/staff member is also an employee of Affiliate or is an employee at another hospital, health care facility or health care organization, Affiliate will allow the faculty/staff member to provide on-site supervision and instruction for its clinical program without the necessity of undergoing an additional background check. Recognizing that students enrolled in the program at Institution will potentially participate in multiple clinical placements at multiple facilities, Affiliate agrees to accept the results of the background check done prior to the student's initial clinical placement if the student maintains continuous enrollment in the health care program and if the results of the background check are archived by the background check agency. Institution shall inform students or faculty/staff members excluded from clinical placement on the basis of a criminal background check of any review or appeal process available pursuant to the Fair Credit Reporting Act or any other law or policy, if any. [If desired, a list of the checks to be run, along with the disqualifying criteria of the Affiliate can be referenced and affixed as an Addendum.] Students shall be treated as trainees who have no expectation of receiving compensation or future employment from the Affiliate or the Institution. Any courtesy appointments to faculty or staff by either the Institution or the Affiliate shall be without entitlement of the individual to compensation or benefits from the appointing party. The parties agree to comply with Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education Amendments of l972, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Executive Order 11,246, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the related regulations to each. Each party assures that it will not discriminate against any individual including, but not limited to, employees or applicants for employment and/or students because of race, religion, creed, color, sex, age, disability, veteran status or national origin. The parties also agree to take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed and that employees are treated during their employment without regard to their race, religion, creed, color, sex, age, disability, veteran status, or national origin. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following: employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection available to employees and applicants for employment. The confidentiality of patient records and student records shall be maintained at all times. Miscellaneous Terms - The following terms shall apply in the interpretation and performance of this Agreement: Neither party shall be responsible for personal injury or property damage or loss except that resulting from its own negligence or the negligence of its employees or others for whom the party is legally responsible. The delay or failure of performance by either party shall not constitute default under the terms of this Agreement, nor shall it give rise to any claims against either party for damages. The sole remedy for breach of this Agreement shall be immediate termination. This Agreement shall in no way be interpreted as creating an agency or employment relationship between the parties. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which together shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. In the event that any signature is delivered by facsimile transmission or by e-mail delivery of a “.pdf” format data file, such signature shall create a valid and binding obligation of the party executing (or on whose behalf such signature is executed) with the same force and effect as if such facsimile or “.pdf” signature page were an original thereof. In witness whereof, the parties, through their authorized representatives, have affixed their signatures below. The University of Memphis By: By: Name: Name: Canty Robbins Title: Title: Procurement and Contract Services, Director Date: Date: Approval of contract which materially differ from this form require approval of the Chancellor. _________________________________________________ Chancellor Date