#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11457
Director, Research Administration Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Director, Research Administration Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE816 Advertised Title Director, Research Administration Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 007043 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department VP Research Minimum Position Qualifications Bachelor’s degree and seven (7)years of relevant experience with at least five (5) years of research administration experience required. Special Conditions The department is especially interested in the following: Master&#8217;s degree Significant experience and technical knowledge of grants, contracts and research administration, including compliance issues, in higher education. Strong experience with electronic research administration systems. Experience with research sponsored by government, corporate and non-profit agencies including regulations, policy and law governing grants and contracts including those pertaining to human subjects, animal welfare, intellectual property, defense security and basic accounting standards. At least five (5) years experience demonstrating successful leadership developing, mentoring and managing research administration staff. Strong team building and interpersonal skills both within the research office and across the organization. Demonstrated financial management skills and the ability to develop and manage office budgets. Excellent communications skills, both oral and in writing, and strong analytic skills. Work Schedule Monday &#8211; Friday 8:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. May need to work/travel beyond normal work schedule. Posting Date 10/27/2015 Closing Date 11/20/2015 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range Commensurate with experience Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit, use hands to handle or feel, and talk or hear. The employee frequently is required to walk. The employee is occasionally required to stand, reach with hands and arms, and stoop, kneel, or crouch. The employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to 10 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision. Additional Working Conditions Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Promotes the growth of research at The University of Memphis through the management of the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs including: internal support programs and administrative services for grant and contract proposal development and submission, oversight of the university’s electronic grants management system; research compliance activities; non-financial post-award activities; data collection and reports related to institutional research performance. Duties & Responsibilities Manages the financial activity of the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs. Duties & Responsibilities Supervises professional and research staff of the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs. Provides operational management, coordination and oversight of day to day operations of the Office of Research and Sponsored Programs. Duties & Responsibilities Provides expertise in Federal, State, and university regulations pertaining to the financial and accounting components of sponsored research. Develops and maintains policies to support and encourage high quality research. Duties & Responsibilities Other duties assigned. Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Resume Optional Documents Cover Letter Unofficial Transcript