#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/about/staff.php
Staff - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About About Board of Directors Meet the Staff Contact Us Mission &amp; Vision FAQs Manuals &amp; Forms Awards of Excellence Home UMAA About Staff Alumni Association Staff Tammy Hedges Vice President, External Relations &amp; Executive Director, Alumni Association Alumni Association Life Member 901.678.2843 thedges@memphis.edu Tammy Hedges graduated from the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville with a B.A. in Public Relations and Advertising (Journalism) and M.A. in Communication. Having worked for Residence Life and Campus Activities at the U of Arkansas, she decided that higher education was her true career path while attending law school. Hedges later came to the University of Memphis where she coordinated Student Activities, organized University functions and directed all events for the Office of the President. Named as Executive Director of the Alumni Association by the University President, Hedges’ program has increased Association membership to over 12,000 members since her appointment in 2003 and has been awarded various CASE distinctions including three CASE District III Grand Awards for Overall Alumni Relations Program and for Special Event Programming and a CASE National Award for Tigers Around Town. Hedges’ event experience ranges from University Presidential Inauguration Ceremonies, NCAA Final Four/National Championship activities, opening events for four University buildings and working with celebrities such as Adam Sandler, Chris Rock, George Strait and Maya Angelou. In 2009, Hedges was named by the University President as the Administrator of the Year. Kristie Goldsmith (BSSW '80) Director, Alumni and Constituent Relations Alumni Association Life Member 901.678.1782 kgldsmth@memphis.edu Holly Snyder (BA '09, MA '13) Assistant Director of Marketing, Alumni and Constituent Relations Alumni Association Annual Member 901.678.2333 hrowsey@memphis.edu Holly Snyder is a two-time graduate of the University of Memphis Journalism Department. She joined the Alumni Association team in 2009 as a graduate assistant and has since served in a coordinator position and was named assistant director in 2013. Her responsibilities include managing all marketing and communication efforts to over 125,000 alumni and friends worldwide. She is the Association’s webmaster, social media manager and editor of the monthly e-newsletter, Memphis Matters . Snyder is the Vice President of Membership for the Council of Alumni Association Marketing and Membership Professionals. Marina Carrier (BSE '11, MA '13) Coordinator, Alumni and Constituent Relations Alumni Association Annual Member 901.678.2461 m.carrier@memphis.edu Law Alumni Chapter - Young Alumni - Memphis Pom Alumni Chapter - Arts &amp; Sciences Alumni Chapter Marina Carrier is a two-time graduate of the University of Memphis. She received her Bachelors of Science in Education in Sport &amp; Leisure Management in 2011 and a Masters of Art in Liberal Studies with concentrations in Sports and Digital Marketing in 2013. Marina was also a member of the University of Memphis Pom Squad from 2007-2011 winning two national titles in 2008 and 2011. Kollin Falk Coordinator, Alumni and Constituent Relations Alumni Association Annual Member 901.678.2905 kjfalk@memphis.edu Athletic Liaison - GameDay Logistics - Out of Town Clubs - FAM - Homecoming- Band Alumni Chapter Kollin Falk received his undergraduate degree in 2010 from the University of Mississippi. He is currently pursuing his Masters of Science in Health and Sport Science with a concentration in Sports Commerce at the University of Memphis. Before joining the staff in March 2015, Kollin worked for the YMCA of Memphis &amp; the MidSouth as a Program Director. Shannon Miller (BA '98) Coordinator, Alumni and Constituent Relations Alumni Association Annual Member 901.678.3043 semiller@memphis.edu Communication Sciences and Disorders Chapter - Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics Chapter - Herff College of Engineering Chapter - International MBA Club - Journalism Club - Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Club - Loewenberg School of Nursing Chapter - Professional MBA Club - University of Memphis Association of Retirees Shannon Miller completed his undergraduate degree at the University of Memphis and received a Master of Arts from the University of Michigan in 2001. He is currently pursuing his MBA at the University of Memphis. Before joining the staff in February 2011, Miller was a corporate sales representative for Thomson Reuters. Jacki Rodriguez (BA '03) Coordinator, Alumni and Constituent Relations Alumni Association Life Member 901.678.3119 jpsavell@memphis.edu Pouncer's Pals - Student Ambassador Board - Hispanic Alumni Council - Emerging Leaders Alumni - UMAA Scholarship - Parent of the Year - Alumni Liaison for Career Services, Midday Moves, Student Convocation, Orientation - University College Chapter Jacki Rodriguez received a degree in public relations from the UofM. She began as the membership analyst for the Association in August 2011 and later became a coordinator. She is a member of several professional organizations including the Public Relations Society of America, the Women's Aspiring Leaders Program, the Kappa Tau Alpha Journalism Society, and Affiliated Student Advancement Programs. As an undergraduate, she interned for Isaac Hayes and the Donna Groff Agency, performed in Revolution Romantique with the UofM Theatre Department, was a member of the Public Relations Student Society of America, and was a founding member of the Hispanic Student Association. Ben Zawacki Membership Analyst Alumni Association Annual Member 901.678.5314 jbzwacki@memphis.edu Membership Processing &amp; Fulfillment - Office Management - National Board Liaison - Alumni Center Scheduling, Maintenance, and Security - Student Worker Supervisor Ben Zawacki is currently pursuing his degree in International Relations and Interdisciplinary Studies with minors in Political Science and History at the UofM. He began his time at the Association as a student worker and received a full-time position in March 2013. Monique Udell (BPS '13) Financial Analyst Alumni Association Annual Member 901.678.4649 kmudell@memphis.edu Financials for Alumni Association and Clubs &amp; Chapters - Process Membership Payments Monique Udell was welcomed to the Association staff in August 2013. Before that time, she worked as an accounting clerk for the University of Memphis Foundation while completing her undergraduate degree. Natalie Lloyd Clynes (BA '13) Marketing Assistant Coordinator Alumni Association Annual Member 901.678.5016 nelloyd@memphis.edu Marketing Assistant - Email Marketing - Newsletters - Website Management - Social Media Natalie Clynes received a Bachelor's Degree in Journalism, with a concentration of Public Relations, from the University of Memphis in 2013. Natalie joined the Alumni Association staff in September 2014. Contact the University of Memphis Alumni Association Call: 901.678.ALUM (2586) 800.678.TRAX (8729) Fax: 901-678.3035 Web Site: E-mail: alumniassociation@memphis.edu Mail: 635 Normal Street Memphis, TN 38152 About Board of Directors Meet the Staff Contact Us Mission &amp; Vision FAQs Manuals &amp; Forms Awards of Excellence Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .