#http://www.memphis.edu/law/programs/clinic-student-testimonials.php
Clinic Student Testimonials - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Home School of Law Programs Clinic Student Testimonials STUDENT TESTIMONIALS Jenna McDonald (JD '14) - Child and Family Litigation Clinic - Spring 2014 Speaking about herself and fellow Memphis Law student, Paige Munn "This case was the most demanding, yet rewarding, case we worked on this semester. We both remember the feelings of shock and outrage we felt after first reading the petition....We were completed overwhelmed with joy, excitement, and satisfaction when the paternal grandparents received custody of the children. The Magistrate ruled in our favor and granted nearly all the relief that we requested. We were able to see the case through, from beginning to end, and leave the case with feelings of achievement and comfort that the girls will no longer suffer at the hands of their own father. The case molded our entire clinical experience and provided us with a head start into our legal careers. We are certain that we will carry memories from this case as we move on, and we are optimistic that we helped provide a much brighter future for the girls." Aurelia Patterson, 3L - Child and Family Litigation Clinic – Spring 2014 Speaking about herself and fellow Memphis Law student, Paige Munn "Working in the legal clinic has presented us with unforgettable memories and expanded our knowledge of the law tremendously. As 2Ls, we were not only able to study the law of international child abduction, but also educate other attorneys, and even the Magistrate, of the law's direct applicability to the case at hand! It is especially rewarding to know that all our hard work and research will help guide the Magistrate in a direction that will allow him to protect the children from harm at the hands of their parents, which is truly what matters the most. This case was easily the most fascinating case that we worked on this semester. One of the challenges of this case is something we discussed extensively during case review—culture. The individuals involved in this case were from Africa and thus used to a different culture than ours. Alongside the culture gap was the language barrier. The legal issues in this case were hands down the most intriguing part of our experience in clinic. When we were drafting our trial brief, we really had to parse the Uniform Child Abduction Prevention Act, and federal and state law on female genital mutilation. Much to our surprise, these laws fit the facts of our case precisely. It was truly captivating to perform the fact/law analysis of this case and see the law play out for the exact reason that it was enacted. It was very rewarding to hear from both attorneys how well we did on the trial brief." Eric Mogy (JD '12) - Attorney, Wagerman/Katzman Law Firm - Civil Litigation Clinic – Spring 2011 "Working in the Civil Litigation Clinic was one of the most rewarding experiences of my law school career. Participating as a student attorney gave me the practical real world experience that you just can not get inside a regular classroom. Whether it was meeting with actual clients, negotiating with opposing counsel, or trying a case in a real court of law, each aspect helped contribute to my readiness as a lawyer once I passed the bar. The clinic also taught me the nuts and bolts of organization, which is key no matter what type of law you practice. I can honestly say that being a student attorney in the Civil Litigation Clinic was instrumental to setting me on the right path as an attorney." Seth Guess (JD '12) - Elder Law Clinic, Spring 2012 "Participating in the Elder Law Clinic was a highlight of my law school experience. Working directly with a client and solving real life legal problems was both challenging and rewarding. It was an excellent opportunity to put book learning into practice. For students wishing to acquire hands-on experience in a supervised setting, I thoroughly recommend taking a clinic course." Chris Lewis (JD '12) - Elder Law Clinic, Fall 2011 "The legal clinics are a very valuable learning tool and greatly enrich the law school experience in many ways. Two of the most valuable aspects of the clinics are the level of involvement with clients' cases and the opportunity to directly interact with clients. In the legal clinics, you get to handle all aspects of the representation. This begins with the initial interview and does not end until the case is resolved. This gives you great hands-on experience that was unparalleled in my legal education. Getting to interact and be responsible for clients' cases was another of the many great benefits of participating in the legal clinics. Filling this role while in a controlled clinic setting is something that no other law school learning opportunity can provide. That is the opportunity to try to resolve all issues in a case and if you cannot you know that there is a leader in the field of law at your side to guide you through whatever matters you cannot resolve on your own. This allows for a deeper learning experience than any law book can provide." Programs Special Degree Programs JD/MBA JD/MA in Pol. Science MPH Fast-Track Part-time Program Certificate Programs Advocacy Business Law Health Law Tax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Home Legal Clinics Externship Program Academic Journals Law Review Mental Health Law &amp; Policy Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law &amp; Policy Institute Home Advisory Committee Symposium Pro Bono Opportunities Health Law Certificate Health Law Society MBA Health Law Section Legal Writing International Law Programs Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .