#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/graduate/study-abroad.php
Study Abroad - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact Graduate Program Resources About M.A. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Current Graduate Students Graduate Courses Erasmus Mundus Program Financial aid/awards Bornblum Travel Award Study Abroad Placement How to Apply Other Resources Home Philosophy Graduate Study Abroad Study Abroad in Philosophy Overview The Philosophy Department is pleased to make available to eligible PhD students the opportunity to study overseas, in particular, in France or Germany. Given eligibility and approval, the student may study in an approved university or more generally in an approved city for one semester. The program is intended to allow approved students to further their study of Continental or analytic philosophy by attending university philosophy seminars and by investigating archives such as those at the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris. Funding The department will provide the normal teaching assistantship funding during the one semester period of study in Europe. In order for this funding to be available, the student must agree to teach a double load (that is, two courses) in the semester before he or she would be studying abroad. Ideally, the period of study abroad would take place in the fall semester of the student's fourth year of residency in the PhD program; this timing would require that the student teach two courses during the spring semester of his or her third year of residency. The student is responsible for funding his or her travel and language instruction (if necessary). Eligibility In general, in order to be approved for the Study Abroad Program, the student must have performed at the highest level in all facets of the PhD program; that is, he or she must have excelled in coursework, in the comprehensive exams, in teaching, and in service to the department. More specifically, in order to be approved for the Study Abroad Program, the student is required to have received A's in all courses relevant to the program; to have passed all four comprehensive exams; to have assisted in courses and then taught them successfully; and to have participated enthusiastically in the life of the department. In addition, prior to the application, the student must demonstrate (as part of the application) that study in the selected country is relevant to the dissertation that he or she is going to write; also, the candidate must have solicited a dissertation director, who supports the general dissertation project and the foreign study relevant to it. In order to be approved for the program, the student is not required to have passed to candidacy for the PhD. It is expected however that the student will make adequate progress toward candidacy during the foreign study period. Application The application will consist in a five hundred word (500) document describing the course of study abroad and the rationale for the study. The student must also submit a document declaring that he or she is going to write a dissertation that requires the foreign study, with a title of the dissertation, and a dissertation director. The declared dissertation director must submit a letter of support for the dissertation project and the course of study abroad. In addition, the application must include a document describing the student's language ability; this document must include a transcript for language courses taken or a letter from a professor of the appropriate language that describes the student's ability. If the student cannot demonstrate proficiency, then the student must provide evidence that he or she will attend an intensive language institute prior to the period of study. The complete application package must be submitted to the Coordinator of Graduate Studies by December 1, during the student's fifth semester of residency. Extending Study The student may petition to extend the study period into the spring semester of the fourth year, which will allow the student a full academic year of study. The student may extend the study period by sending, to the student's dissertation director and at the same time to the Coordinator of Graduate Studies, a document describing the progress made in the course of study being pursued abroad. The student must send the document by December 1 of the seventh semester of PhD study, that is, December 1 of the semester abroad. If the dissertation director, in consultation with the full faculty, the Coordinator of Graduate Studies, and the Chair of department, believes that good progress is being made and that an additional semester of study would be advantageous, the student will be granted the extension. In addition, in order to acquire the extension, the student must agree to teach a double load during the semester in which he or she returns to residency, that is, in the fall semester of the fifth year of residency. Other Countries A student may petition to study in countries other than France or Germany (Italy, for example), if the student can demonstrate that such study would be advantageous. In these cases, the funding, eligibility, and application process remains the same; the student must demonstrate proficiency in the appropriate language. In the application, the student and dissertation director must demonstrate that the student will have a faculty contact in the desired city or university. Students should also be aware that the student exchange program with Warwick University in Coventry, England, is still available. Finally, students may petition to waive certain parts of the funding, eligibility, and application process. Graduate Program Resources About M.A. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Current Graduate Students Graduate Courses Erasmus Mundus Program Financial aid/awards Bornblum Travel Award Study Abroad Placement How to Apply Other Resources Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .