#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/undergraduate/honorsprogram.php
Psychology Honors Program - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources Undergraduate Advising About Us Advising Appointment Resources Contact us Undergraduate Information Getting Involved Prepare for Graduate School Honors Program Psychology as a Career FAQ Home Department of Psychology Undergraduate Psychology Honors Program Honors Programs Announcements Some things you should know about the Honors Psychology Thesis The Psychology Honors Program (PHP) is designed to provide honors-level work in the psychology major. The University Honors Program (UNHP) has an interdisciplinary emphasis, but includes work in psychology. Because each program has its own emphasis, students who qualify are encouraged to take advantage of both programs. For more information on the PHP, click on the links below. Who Qualifies to Participate? Students qualify to apply for the Psychology Honors Program (PHP) if they fall in one of the following three groups: Any student with a cumulative GPA of 3.25 or higher may apply. Students who do not yet have a cumulative GPA (e.g. in their first semester) may apply if they are already part of the University Honors Program. Individual students who do not have the required GPA to complete honors work may still be considered for the Psychology Honors Program with support from a faculty member in the department. In the latter case the faculty member writes a letter of support for the student. Applying to the Psychology Honors Program All interested students must apply for the Psychology Honors Program using the PHP Application Form . Following an interview with the Honors Coordinator, students will be considered by the Undergraduate Advisory Committee for participation in the program. Requirements of the Psychology Honors Program The Psychology Honors Program requires 15 hours of Honors work in the psychology major. Students who complete the program with a 3.25 cumulative grade point average and finish the Honors Senior Thesis will earn the distinction 'With Honors in Psychology'. The 15 hours of honors work can be acquired in a variety of ways, including psychology honors classes, psychology honors contracts, and the required psychology honors thesis. Note that these 15 hours of honors courses are not in addition to requirements for the major. Most or all of these hours may also be counted toward the requirements of the University Honors Program. Go to Psychology Honors Course Options to view honors course offerings. Program Course Options Spring 2011 Honors Courses in Psychology Psyc 1200-301 (General Psychology) Frank Leeming 3 hrs. credit Psyc 3000-301 (Intro to Psychological Research) Jeffrey Berman 4 hrs. credit Psyc 3106-301 (Social Psychology) William Zachry 3 hrs credit Psyc 3306-301 (Physiological Psychology) Charles Blaha 3 hrs credit Psyc 3507 301 (Alcohol, Drugs, and Behavior) Melloni Cook 3 hrs credit Psyc 4030-301 (Issues in Psychotherapy Research) Jeffrey Berman 3 hrs credit Psychology Honors Classes Periodically Offered PSYC 1200: Honors General Psychology (Students who wish to enroll in this course during their first year can do so either by meeting the requirements for the University Honors Program or by instructor permission). Honors Sections of courses in the regular Psychology curriculum, including PSYC 3101 (Psychology of Personality), PSYC 3102 (Abnormal Psychology), PSYC 3101 (Child Psychology), PSYC 3106 (Social Psychology), PSYC 3303 (Thinking and Cognitive Processes), PSYC 3306 (Physiological Psychology), and PSYC 3507 (Alcohol, Drugs, and Behavior). PSYC 4029: Introduction to Neuropsychology PSYC 4030: Issues in Psychotherapy Research PSYC 4032: Research Methods, Honors PSYC 4305: Mind, Brain, and Intelligence, Honors PSYC 4016: Social Psychological Applications to Clinical Psychology, Honors PSYC 4040 - 4049: Honors Special Topics PSYC 4504: Directed Research or PSYC 4506: Directed Research in Behavioral Neuroscience PSYC 4996: Honors Senior Thesis or PSYC 4997: Senior Thesis in Behavioral Neuroscience Psychology Honors Contracts Students may ask the instructor of psychology course to negotiate an honors contract. The contract should be completed before the second week of classes and turned in to the Psychology Honors Coordinator, Dr. William Zachry, along with a copy of the course syllabus. The instructor and student agree on a substitute or additional assignment that would provide a more challenging learning experience. Examples include an extra research paper, outside readings, class presentations, laboratory or field research, or other independent project. Students pursuing an honors contract must complete the PHP Contract Form . Psychology Honors Senior Thesis Students may ask a Psychology faculty member to serve as advisor for the Honors Senior Thesis, typically completed during the student's last semester. Before enrolling in Senior Thesis, students complete at least one semester of Directed Research with the same faculty advisor who will oversee work on the Senior Thesis. For detailed information, please see the Directed Research/Senior Thesis Guidelines . If you have questions, please contact the Honors Program Coordinator. Honors Program Coordinator Melloni Cook Senior Honors Thesis Nature and Purpose of the Senior Honors Thesis The last two semesters of the Psychology Honors Program provide a unique opportunity for students to learn from faculty mentors in an individualized setting. Students are led by mentors into research on particular subject areas of interest to both the student and professor. The two-semester project begins with a Directed Research course, and the final product in the last semester is the Senior Thesis. The purpose of the Senior Thesis is to learn the process of conducting research in psychology. Students will learn how to (1) read and evaluate the research literature; (2) derive and state hypotheses; (3) collect and/or organize data using accepted methodologies; (4) analyze data using appropriate statistical techniques; (5) draw logical conclusions from data analysis; (6) relate these conclusions to the research literature; and (7) present a thesis orally and in writing. These goals may be achieved regardless of whether the Senior Thesis produces statistically significant support for the stated hypotheses or makes an original contribution to the research literature. The Senior Thesis project will typically consist of an empirical data-collection study that is conducted by the undergraduate honors student in collaboration with the mentor and his/her laboratory participants. In some cases where large data sets have previously been collected, or in which the student could not collect the type of data needed, the project may be carried out on existing data. In this case the student should be heavily involved in the data analysis and thoroughly understand the procedures used. Whichever type of project is chosen, the honors student should contribute creatively to the research. A high standard of intellectual engagement and time commitment is expected throughout the two-semester sequence. Click Directed Research/Senior Thesis Guidelines to view a complete set of guidelines for the Directed Research/Thesis Proposal/Senior Thesis sequence. Click Senior Thesis Proposal Form for a copy of the required thesis proposal form. In preparing the finished thesis, use this format for the Senior Thesis Title and Signature Pages . When the thesis has received final committee approval, visit Instructions for Binding of Senior Honors Thesis for binding information. If you have questions, please contact the Honors Program Coordinator. Honors Program Coordinator Melloni Cook . University of Memphis Psi Chi Chapter Psi Chi is the National Honor Society in Psychology, founded in 1929 for the purposes of encouraging, stimulating, and maintaining excellence in scholarship, and advancing the science of psychology. Psi Chi's membership originally was limited to outstanding graduate students. As the field of psychology grew, exceptional undergraduate students were also inducted, and Psi Chi's network of chapters spread to over 1,000 campuses across the U.S and Canada. Now Psi Chi has more chapters than any other honor society in baccalaureate institutions, and has the largest membership of any psychological organization in the world - over 500,000 members. Psi Chi provides national recognition for academic excellence in psychology, an honor which can be noted on employment applications, vitae, and resumes. Membership in Psi Chi is for life, and the initial registration fee is your only payment to the national organization. The Psi Chi National Office provides references throughout each member's lifetime. Upon induction into Psi Chi, you will receive a membership certificate, card, and lapel pin. You will also be entitled to purchase other Psi Chi merchandise in the form of jewelry, clothing, and accessories, as well as receive copies of 'Eye on Psi Chi', a quarterly magazine published by the Psi Chi national office. For a detailed description of the benefits of membership, go to The University of Memphis Psi Chi Chapter The University of Memphis chapter of Psi Chi was chartered in 1954 as Chapter #103. It has inducted 434 members from that time to the present. The chapter is an active student organization. The chapter holds monthly business meetings and sponsors a variety of programs to help members learn about psychology careers and opportunities for involvement in research labs in the Psychology Department. It also promotes various community service projects and organizes social activities such as movie nights for Psi Chi members. Psi Chi members are invited to use the facilities of the Psi Chi/Honors Lounge, Room 205-B in the Psychology Building. The Lounge is a comfortable place to study, use computers, snack, or just take a break between classes. It is only open to members of Psi Chi and members of the Psychology Honors Program. A membership drive is typically conducted in fall semester and again in spring semester. The national Psi Chi website states the membership requirements as follows: Becoming a Member Membership in Psi Chi is open to those who are making the study of psychology one of their major interests and who are students or faculty members in an institution where a chapter is located (if your school does not have a Psi Chi chapter, have you considered starting a chapter? ). Undergraduate and graduate students and faculty members who meet the criteria below are eligible for membership. Students and faculty are elected to membership by the chapter at the institution, according to the provisions in the national Psi Chi Constitution . Membership in Psi Chi is open to qualified candidates of any age, sex, sexual orientation, race, handicap or disability, color, religion, and national and ethnic origin. The Psi Chi Constitution requires that undergraduate student applicants to Psi Chi: Must be enrolled as a student at your school Must have established a GPA at your school Must be at least a second-semester sophomore Must be enrolled as a major or minor in a psychology program or a program psychological in nature that is equivalent to a psychology major Must have completed at least 9 semester hours or 14 quarter hours of psychology courses at your school Must have an overall GPA that is in the top 35% of their class based on rankings within sophomore, within junior, and within senior classes (if the cut-off for the top 35% is below 3.00, the applicant must have an overall GPA of at least 3.00 on a 4-point scale) Must have a psychology GPA that is at least 3.00 on a 4-point scale * Undergraduate students who have transferred to a new institution and are interested in becoming a Psi Chi member must meet the requirements listed above, plus complete one semester at the new institution to establish a GPA and complete 9 hours of psychology courses at the new institution. The Psi Chi Constitution requires that graduate student applicants to Psi Chi: Must be enrolled as a graduate student at your school in a psychology graduate program Must have established a GPA at your school Must have an overall GPA of at least 3.00 on a 4-point scale in all graduate courses, including psychology courses ** Graduate students who have transferred to a new institution and are interested in becoming a Psi Chi member must complete one semester at the new institution to establish a GPA in addition to the above requirements. Students who wish to apply should complete the Application Form found at and return it to the Psi Chi chapter mailbox in the main Psychology Department office. Applications are also available at the Psi Chi/Honors Lounge in Room 205-B of the Psychology Building. Eligible students will be notified of their acceptance in writing. They will then complete a Registration Card form found at and return it to the Psi Chi chapter. There is a one time $45 national fee that assures your lifetime membership to Psi Chi, as well as $10 local chapter dues. Checks for the $55 total should be made payable to The University of Memphis and returned with the Registration Card form. To contact Psi Chi, please send email to psichimemphis@gmail.com. You may also contact any of the chapter officers or the faculty advisor. For additional information and event updates, please visit our Facebook page . Completion of the Psychology Honors Program When you have completed 15 hours of Honors work in Psychology, including the Senior Thesis (or are about to graduate and are about to complete the honors work), you must submit a PHP Completion Form listing all of your psychology honors courses. This form should be submitted to the Honors Coordinator, Dr. William Zachry, one month before you plan to graduate. Your transcript will then show the designation 'With Honors in Psychology'. Undergraduate Advising About Us Advising Appointment Resources Contact us Undergraduate Information Getting Involved Prepare for Graduate School Honors Program Psychology as a Career FAQ Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .