#http://www.memphis.edu/chem/about/news/
News from the Department of Chemistry - Department of Chemistry - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Chemistry About Programs People Research Resources About Welcome Letter Apply News Grants &amp; Awards Facilities Publications Outreach Chemistry Careers Home Department of Chemistry About News from the Department of Chemistry Follow us on Twitter for more frequent updates from the Department of Chemistry! Welcome Tim Brewster! Published: Thursday, September 10, 2015 Though it's a few weeks overdue, we would like to welcome the newest member of our faculty, Dr. Timothy Brewster! Tim joins us after his postdoctoral work with Karen Goldberg at the University of Washington, Seattle. His specialty is organometallic synthesis and he is currently seeking motivated undergraduate and graduate students to join his lab! Find out more about Tim on his profile page. HUANG AND WANG RECEIVE NIH GRANT Published: Friday, August 28, 2015 Dr. Xiaohua Huang (PI) and Dr. Yongmei Wang (Co-PI) received a R15 grant from National Institutes of Health. This is a three-year project with a total amount around $400K. The fund will be used to support the research on developing new technologies for capture, detection and analysis of circulating tumor cells, in collaboration with Dr. Bashir Morshed in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Congratulations! Wang awarded Dunavant Proffesorship Published: Wednesday, August 26, 2015 Dunavant Professorships are endowed by a generous gift from William Dunavant in honor of Dr. Ralph Faudree who was dean of the college from 1995-2000. The College of Arts and Sciences awards one to four professorships annually. Awardees receive $5,000 per year for three years to support their research programs. Since 1999, over forty Dunavant Professorships have been awarded. Prof. Yongmei Wang is one of the 2015 awardees! Read More &gt;&gt;&gt; CHEMISTRY STUDENTS AT THE 2015 UNIVERSITY HONOR'S ASSEMBLY Published: Tuesday, April 28, 2015 At the University's Honors Assembly on April 26th, 2015, two undergraduate chemistry majors were awardees! William Prater received the Chemistry Department's Outstanding General Student award and Luke R. Hurst received the Department's Chi Beta Phi Award in Chemistry. Read More &gt;&gt;&gt; Alexander and Deyonker on EST&amp;L Cover Published: Tuesday, April 28, 2015 A journal article on the 2014 Elk River, WV chemical spill, with Prof. Alexander, Dr. DeYonker, and Chemistry major Kate Charbonnet, Prof. Andrea Dietrich from Virginia Tech, and co-workers, was selected to be the feature cover article of the April 2015 issue of Environmental Science and Technology Letters . Read More &gt;&gt;&gt; About Welcome Letter Apply News Grants &amp; Awards Facilities Publications Outreach Chemistry Careers Apply to the Department of Chemistry Now accepting applications for graduate school! Contact us! Call us (901.678.2621) or stop by the Departmental office at Smith Chemistry Rm 210 Seminar Schedule F2015 Click here for the Fall Seminar schedule! What's new? Click here to see what's new in our Department! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .