#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/ccfa/comm.php
COMM - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions COMM COMM (COMM) COMMUNICATION Sandra J. Sarkela, Ph.D., Interim Chair Craig O. Stewart, Ph.D., Undergraduate Studies Coordinator 212 Art &amp; Communication Building NOTE: In addition to specific prerequisites, junior standing or permission of the department chair is a prerequisite for all 3000 and 4000 level courses in the Department of Communication. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: COMM 4210-19. Special Topics In Communication Studies. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit when topic varies. COMM 4220-29. Special Topics in Film. (1-3). Topics are varied and in online class listings. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit when topic varies. COMM 1851 - Introduction to Film (3) Comprehensive study of the forms, functions, and history of film art; emphasis on developing student's critical skills and aesthetic appreciation through analysis of complex formal, social, historical, and cultural dimensions of the art of film. [G] COMM 2020 - TV/Video/Radio Production Lab (1-3) (1823). Experiences in production of broadcast quality television studio, radio station, and remote productions. Students assume technical positions on a variety of assignments as productions assistants. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit. COMM 2100 - Communication Inquiry (3) History and development of the discipline of communication; emphasis on rhetoric, social science, and media; theories and models of communication. COMM 2101 - Media and Info Literacy (3) Critical examination and analysis of media and information products; focus on mediated construction of meaning and assessment of credibility online and in traditional mass media; basic research skills necessary to complete academic projects successfully. COMM 2381 - Oral Communication (3) Principles and practices of public speaking using live and mediated formats; emphasis on researching, analyzing, writing, and delivering effective spoken messages with appropriate visual support in informative and persuasive settings. [G] COMM 3001 - Rhetoric/Civic Controversy (3) Introduction to history and practice of rhetoric as the art of civic engagement in a democracy; focus on key terms, ethical assumptions, and interpretative tools of rhetoric study; analysis of contemporary and historical cases in local and national controversy. PREREQUISITE: COMM 2100 or permission of instructor. COMM 3003 - Television and Culture (3) (3861). Social, political, and aesthetic dimensions of television in contemporary culture. COMM 3012 - Health Communication (3) (4012). Examination of the role of communication in health care; application of communication theory and practice to the health care context from provider-patient interaction to cultural influences on health. COMM 3100 - Communication Ethics (3) Exploration of principles, theories, and philosophical approaches to ethics of human communication; emphasis on decision-making, critical thinking and awareness of personal responsibilities as a sender and receiver of messages. COMM 3321 - Argumentation and Debate (3) Theory of argumentation with emphasis on developing skills in analysis, reasoning, and use of evidence in various debate situations and understanding of the role of debate in public decision-making. PREREQUISITE: COMM 2381. COMM 3322 - Theories of Persuasion (3) Principles underlying communication designed to influence attitudes or behavior; approaches to motivation, perception, message structure, attention, reasoning, audience analysis, persuasability, and attitude change; items for analysis drawn from speeches, advertising, radio, television, and film. COMM 3330 - Communication Research Methods (4) Examination and application of qualitative and quantitative methods of research. Three hours of lecture, two hours of laboratory per week. PREREQUISITE: COMM 2100 or JOUR 1700. COMM 3341 - Discussion (3) Study and practice of principles and techniques of discussion, dealing with current problems of wide interest and significance. COMM 3342 - Communication and Leadership (3) Relationship between communication variables and leadership styles and effectiveness in various organizational and group settings. COMM 3360 - Rhetoric/Pop Culture (3) Investigation of rhetorics of U.S. culture; focus on how constructions of class, gender, race, and sexuality work in contemporary television, film, music, and advertising. COMM 3361 - African-American Rhetoric (3) Speeches and rhetoric of African-Americans; emphasis on spokespersons such as Walker, Turner, Douglass, Washington, DuBois, Malcolm X, King, Davis, and Jackson. COMM 3800 - Media Industries (3) Overview of economic structure of media industries, including role of regulation and impact of media organizations on society. COMM 3801 - TV Production Technique/JOUR (3) For majors in the broadcast journalism sequence; basic principles and techniques of video production with production exercises. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. COMM 3820 - Broadcast Prep and Performance (3) Skills required for on-air performance in broadcasting and cable emphasizing use of voice and copy preparation; presentation of public affairs programming, talk show hosting, sportscasting, newscasting and general announcing. COMM 3821 - Audio Narratives (3) Basic principles and practices in storytelling for radio, the Internet, and new media; lecture and laboratory course using digital audio workstations for producing, recording, and editing. COMM 3823 - Motion Picture Prod I (4) Basic production skills and theory; still and 16 mm motion picture photography; film editing and audio; hands-on production exercises. COMM 3824 - Motion Picture Prod II (4) Continued production skills and theory utilizing 16 mm film, digital video and digital post production; extensive production exercises. PREREQUISITE: minimum grade of "C" in COMM 3823, or permission of instructor. COMM 3842 - TV Studio Production I (4) Techniques of studio TV production, including staging and direction of programs. PREREQUISITE: minimum grade of "C" in COMM 3823 or permission of instructor. COMM 4011 - Communication in Organizations (3) Study of communication systems and problems in contemporary organizations with emphasis on the role of communication in corporate culture and organizational change. COMM 4013 - Political Communication (3) Investigation of various forms of political communication; texts drawn primarily from current political disputes in the U.S.; focus on improving basic skills of critical thinking and writing about civic life. COMM 4014 - Communication on the Internet (3) Research and theories examining role of internet and new technologies in everyday interaction; interpersonal and group communication, language change, online communities and social networks, identity and self-presentation online. COMM 4015 - Health Literacy (3) Development of health literacy as an area of concern in healthcare includiing patient/provider interactions, public health campaigns, health education, healthcare reform, and health insurance. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3012, or permission of instructor. COMM 4016 - Public Health Campaigns (3) Examination of the fundamentals of public health communication as well as the latest public health communcation innovations, tools, technologies, research and strategies. PREREQUSITE: COMM 3012, or permission of instructor. COMM 4211 - Public Health Campaigns (3) Vital role that public health communication plays in the success of new health care delivery structures, the implementation of health care reform, and the adoption of advances in prevention, health promotion,and emergency preparedness; latest public health communication innovations, tools, technologies, research and strategies. COMM 4212 - Gender and Communication (3) Examine how technology shapes the way we understand and manage our bodies in society. COMM 4215 - Reality TV (3) Examine and critically evaluate the many facets of Reality TV; attempt to identify the roots of our increasingly voyeuristic society, understand the production values of reality-based programs, and speculate as to what the future holds. COMM 4224 - Storytelling and Life (3) This course uses film, both documentary and narrative as an access point to start a conversation about the power of story, and to introduce each student to the story they are telling in their lives. COMM 4340 - Listening (3) Exploration of communication theory and practice from perspective of listening; philosophical, practical, personal dimensions of listening as an art of being as well as a mode of doing. COMM 4341 - Interpersonal Communication (3) Theory, research and practice regarding dyadic communication. COMM 4342 - Small Group Communication (3) Study of group communication theory emphasizing group membership, member perceptions, group development, group processes, and group outcomes. COMM 4360 - American Eloquence (3) Examination of notable public discourse from before founding of the republic through twentieth century; religious and secular foundations of American rhetoric; tensions of inclusion and exclusion in development of national self-understanding. COMM 4363 - Dialogue (3) Theoretical, philosophical and practical exploration of dialogic communication and relations. COMM 4364 - Voices/American Women (3) History of women's public discourse in the U.S. from the 19th through 20th century; social and cultural significance of women's participation in public discourse; credibility and nature of argument both within and about women's public address. COMM 4365 - Place/Community/Communication (3) Exploration of interrelationships between human interaction, created places and natural world; emphasis on communication environment, broadly conceived, and its effect on community. COMM 4373 - Interracial Communication (3) Special problems encountered in communication among races; readings, discussion, and field study of how prejudice, stereotypes, and self-concepts can affect communication; exploration of methods to minimize these problems. COMM 4374 - Studies in Communication Arts (1-3) Independent research in areas of special interest of communication, broadcast and electronic media, and film and video. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. COMM 4375 - Intercultural Communication (3) Special problems encountered in communication among people of different cultural backgrounds; focus on understanding communication between and among people with different national/cultural backgrounds and functioning more effectively in multicultural settings. COMM 4380 - Communication and Conflict (3) Theories and methods of conflict management and resolution focusing on practical communication skills.; concepts of perception, listening and peacemaking emphasized. COMM 4381 - Senior Capstone (3) Synthesis and extension of knowledge in communication studies; demonstrated integration of learning and positioning to move on as individuals, citizens, and/or professionals. Students will create a portfolio representing past course projects as well as carry out a capstone research project. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3330, and senior standing, or permission of instructor. COMM 4802 - Internship (1-3) Field studies in communication. Supervised practical work with government institutions, non-profit organizations, private business, film companies, and broadcast and electronic media firm. Written analysis of experience required. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. (S/U). COMM 4811 - Media 2.0 (3) Examination of long tail phenomenon and other theories behind convergent media; people and organizations producing and distributing work on the Internet and other alternative channels; new distribution forms challenges and assumptions about how mass media should and does work. COMM 4822 - Audio Production Film/Video (3) Intermediate principles and practices of audio (recording, editing, mixing, and design) with emphasis on film and video production. PREREQUISITE: A minimum grade of "C" in COMM 3824, or permission of instructor. COMM 4824 - Cinema/Videography (3) Art of visual interpretation with strong concentration in theory and techniques of lighting. Experience with professional film and video cameras and lighting equipment. PREREQUISITE: A minimum grade of "C" in COMM 3824, or permission of instructor. COMM 4825 - Editing/Post Production (3) Aesthetics of continuity development in a variety of editing styles; editing techniques and post-production procedures for both videotape and double system film. PREREQUISITE: A minimum grade of "C" in COMM 3824, or permission of instructor. COMM 4841 - Television Workshop (4) Production of television programming for local cable casting. May be repeated for a maximum of 8 semester hours; repetition will not result in a change of any grade previously given. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3842 or permission of instructor. COMM 4842 - TV Studio Production II (4) Advanced training in TV studio/multiple camera techniques; extensive production work. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3842. COMM 4850 - Film History I (3) Historical survey of motion pictures from medium's pre-history to 1940; emphasis on narrative film. COMM 4851 - Film History II (3) Historical survey of the major movements, genres, and themes in narrative film from 1940 to 1960. COMM 4853 - Documentary Form Film (3) Development of non-fiction film as rhetorical and expressive form; analysis of individual films, genres, and filmmakers. COMM 4854 - Documentary Form Broadcasting (3) History, theory, and criticism of non-fiction broadcasting, including docudrama and television documentaries. COMM 4856 - Women and Film (3) Women as performers, viewers, subjects, and creators in U.S. and international cinema. COMM 4858 - Contemporary Cinema (3) Major themes and styles in international and U.S. narrative film from 1980 to present. COMM 4859 - Monster Films (3) Survey of classic and contemporary monster films exploring monstrosity as a social and cultural category for organizing, classifying, and managing change. COMM 4891 - Producing/Directing Film/Video (3) Research and script preparation; budgeting and production management; working with actors and crew. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3824, or permission of instructor. COMM 4892 - Film/Video Production (1-3) Film and video production workshop. Class members write, produce, direct, or assume crew responsibilities on productions. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. See departmental guidelines for independent production requirements and procedures. PREREQUISITE: COMM 3824 and permission of instructor. COMM 4960 - Documentary Writing (3) Writing for non-fiction media. COMM 4970 - Screenwriting (3) Writing for fiction film and television; basic dramatic theory, narrative structure, characterization, dialogue, adaptation, and the unique demands of audiovisual media. COMM 4980 - Honors Studies (3) Reserved for students enrolled in Communication Honors Program. May be repeated for a maximum of 15 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of Director of Communication Honors Program. COMM 4982 - Honors Seminar (3) Intensive study of particular problems in communication. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit when semester topics vary. PREREQUISITE: permission of Director of Communication Honors Program. COMM 4993 - Senior Practicum (3) Independent work in radio, video, or film production. Each student has complete creative control of a program from conception through final product. See departmental guidelines for independent production requirements and procedures. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. COMM 4999 - Senior Honors Thesis (3) Supervised independent research project. Open only to students enrolled in the Communication Honors Program. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of Director of Communication Honors Program. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .