#http://www.memphis.edu/csd/resources/faq1.php
FAQs - Pre-Orientation - School of Communication Sciences and Disorders - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Student Organizations Resources News Resources Clinical Practicum Facilities Speech and Hearing Center Textbooks CSD Library Location and Housing Financial Assistance Information for New Students Introduction FAQs - Pre-Orientation FAQs - Financial FAQs - Class/Clinic FAQs - First Week Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Resources FAQs - Pre-Orientation FAQs - Pre-Orientation Questions How do I access my UofM email address? There should be a 20 digit account code in your letter of acceptance. With that information, you can visit to activate your account. If you do not have that information, contact the ITD Helpdesk at 901.678.8888 to request a username and password. If for some reason you don't have the 20 digit account, it might be necessary to first contact the Registrars office at 901.678.2810 to obtain your code and UUID. It is important to activate this account and check it frequently during the summer before you begin. This is the address the university will use to provide financial information (deadlines, fees, etc.) and the address professors will use to email textbook information. What is a program partner? All incoming students have been paired with a current student to serve as a program partner. This student will be in touch with you during the summer and available to answer any questions you may have about the program. If you have not been contacted, we may not have your current e-mail address. Please contact the current NSSLHA President to update your contact information and to learn how you can contact your program partner. What is a clinical experience form? Incoming students will need to complete the clinical experience form and return to the identified Director of Clinical Services (listed below). In addition, to this form, a copy of all signed observation/clock hours obtained prior to the start of school will also need to be submitted. If you are coming in without a communicative disorders background and don't have observation hours don't worry! You will get the hours in your first semester. If you do have another background and have observation hours, you can submit letters documenting your hours from the certified SLP or audiologist you observed with their signature and ASHA number. Director of Clinical Services, Audiology Jennifer Taylor Director of Clinical Services, Speech-Language Pathology Marilyn Wark Do I need a background check? Yes. In order to be allowed in clinical placements, everyone will need to have a background check. Because the process takes several weeks to complete, we have set the application deadline for the background check for August 25. The only caveat is that this process MUST be done in Memphis. If you are in Memphis this summer, it is highly recommended that you apply as soon as possible. For instructions on how to complete the background check, click here . Any student found to have failed a criminal background check might be unable to complete the requirements of the program thus resulting in removal from the program. What about drug testing? Drug screening is conducted at the discretion of the human resource officers of the area facilities that host students for their off-site clinical education. Any student found to have failed drug testing might be unable to complete the requirements of the program thus resulting in removal from the program. Do I need to be certified in CPR? Yes. It is important that all students have taken a live (not online) Healthcare Provider CPR and AED course. A two year certification is preferred. If you are already certified, you will be asked to provide a copy to the Director of Clinical Services. If you are not yet certified, it is strongly recommended that you take care of this requirement before the fall semester, even if you won't be in a clinical placement until the spring. Attempt to obtain certification that will last two years. Do I need any vaccinations? Yes. All full-time students must show documentation of two MMR vaccinations and two Varicella vaccinations or proof of immunity to enroll at the University. In addition, CSD requires all students to have an annual TB Test. Please keep record of your results; you will be required to submit them to CSD in August. It is also recommended that you have a Hepatitis B vaccination. If you decide to get this vaccination, please take into consideration that the vaccine requires a series of three shots spaced out over several months. So, if you will not be able to make it home to your doctor for each shot of the series, you may choose to get the vaccination in Memphis. All of these shots can be done in Memphis and at the UofM. Click here for more information. Will I have 24-hour access to the building? Yes. All students will have access to the building anytime of the day or evening. This will allow you full access to the library (daytime only) and computer labs.You will need your University-issued ID card to enter the building. I don't have a background in Communication Disorders. Are there any prerequisites I need? There are no prerequisites in the area of communication disorders. However, there are basic undergraduate level courses required for ASHA certification. These are in the areas of math, biological sciences, physical sciences, and social sciences. While many students will have completed these as part of their undergrad studies, there might be one or two courses that will need to be completed in order to graduate. These can be completed anywhere (e.g., online, at a community college, at the UofM). It is strongly recommended that this coursework be completed in the summer prior to the first semester of graduate study. It is important to note that if you are receiving a Graduate Assistantship, and choose to take these courses during your graduate program, your assistantship will not cover the cost of undergraduate courses. The specific list of prerequisites can be found here. Resources Clinical Practicum Facilities Speech and Hearing Center Textbooks CSD Library Location and Housing Financial Assistance Information for New Students Introduction FAQs - Pre-Orientation FAQs - Financial FAQs - Class/Clinic FAQs - First Week Apply Now Want to pursue a degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders? Find out how to apply. Support the School Help support the School with the funding of various initiatives. Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Learn about our in-house clinical training facility. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .