#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11449
Landscape Worker I Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Landscape Worker I Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE824 Advertised Title Landscape Worker I Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 003572 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department PP Landscape Minimum Position Qualifications Must be able to read and follow written instructions in the proper execution of assigned tasks. Must possess and maintain a valid driver’s license. Special Conditions Experience with grounds maintenance. Some knowledge of the practices, tools, materials and machines used in grounds maintenance operations. Physical ability to perform work involving standing, stooping, operating equipment, and lifting of materials and equipment. Ability to work outdoors in all kinds of weather. Knowledge of appropriate safety and security precautions appropriate to work performed. Ability to be flexible to address after hours emergencies when necessary. Ability to become familiar with power equipment. Work Schedule Monday &#8211; Friday 7:30 a.m. &#8211; 3:30 p.m. May need to work/travel beyond normal work schedule Posting Date 11/06/2015 Closing Date 11/23/2015 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range $10.10 per hour Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to use hands to handle, or feel. The employee frequently is required to stand; walk; sit; reach with hands and arms; climb or balance; stoop, kneel, or crouch; and talk or hear. The employee must frequently lift and/or move up to 25 pounds, occasionally lift and/or move up to 75 pounds and push or pull up to 250 pounds with appropriate tools or moving equipment. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision, and color vision. While performing the duties of this job, the employee is occasionally exposed to wet and humid conditions, chemicals, fumes and airborne particles, outdoor spaces and is required to climb ladders to access equipment in high and/or precarious places. The noise level in the work environment is usually moderate. Additional Working Conditions Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Cleans, maintains and repairs lawn care tools and equipment. Operates equipment such as weed eaters, edgers, blowers, etc. Duties & Responsibilities Maintains grounds; waters, rakes, mows, trims, and edges lawns and shrubbery. Duties & Responsibilities Maintains work area in a clean, neat, and orderly manner. Duties & Responsibilities Picks up and bags litter, broken glass, and tree limbs. Duties & Responsibilities Plants shrubs, trees, flowers, and other plants. Duties & Responsibilities Re-sods or reseeds barren areas. Duties & Responsibilities Answers questions and provides information to staff, faculty, students and visitors. Duties & Responsibilities Other duties as assigned. Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Optional Documents Resume