#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/membership/insurance.php
Insurance Benefits - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Membership Join Now Services &amp; Benefits List of Benefits Email365 Insurance Travel New Grads Students Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Membership Insurance Benefits Insurance Benefits Auto and Home Insurance Benefit Now Available from Liberty Mutual A Message from Liberty Mutual Insurance Auto &amp; Home Insurance That Give You Peace of Mind Liberty Mutual has partnered with the UofM Alumni Association to offer alumni exclusive savings on auto and home insurance. That means you get quality coverage, expert advice, and personalized service at a special discounted rate. You could also enjoy our many money-saving opportunities catered to your lifestyle, including our New to Liberty, Newly Married, New Move, and Hybrid Vehicle Discounts, or our valuable and unique benefits, such as Better Car Replacement™, Accident Forgiveness, Home Protector Plus™, and our Multi-Policy Discount.* Call 888.620.2146 or visit Liberty Mutual to learn more or get a free quote. *Discounts and savings are available where state laws and regulations allow, and may vary by state. To the extent permitted by law, applicants are individually underwritten; not all applicants may qualify. Not a member? JOIN TODAY! View the complete list of membership benefits here . Click here to join and start saving! The University of Memphis Alumni Association has partnered with Mercer to present exclusive offers on Liberty Mutual Home &amp; Auto Insurance and various carriers for Life and Health insurance. Protection for you and your family is just one click away! Click here or call 888.560.ALUM (2586) for more details. Health Care, Auto Insurance, Homeowner's Insurance, Long Term Care and Dental Insurance now available through Mercer Alumni may purchase a variety of high quality, competitively priced insurance products through the University of Memphis Alumni Association. These plans are administered by Mercer Consumer, a service of Mercer Health &amp; Benefits Administration LLC, one of the largest brokers of alumni association insurance in the United States. Short Term Medical Are you between jobs? Or perhaps a new graduate looking for that first job? Then chances are you're in need of temporary medical insurance until you become part of an employer's plan. Get a quote today by visiting alumniplans.com/stm/umem right away! Medical Insurance The Major Medical Program provides a wide variety of health insurance options for alumni and their families. Coverage is available in most states. The program includes PPO, HMO, MSA, and Fee for Service plans (availability will differ based on your state of residence). Auto/Home Insurance Save big on Auto and Home insurance just for being a member of the Alumni Association. Get a quote from Liberty Mutual today to see what you could be saving! Long Term Care Long Term Care is a critical component of a retirement plan. With the option to choose from multiple carriers, alumni are able to obtain coverage and/or find rates based on their individual health circumstances. Alumni and their spouses are offered a 5% discount annually through the UofM Alumni Association. Dental Insurance Whether you need coverage for yourself of for a growing family, you'll appreciate DentalInsurance.com's comprehensive benefits. Learn more at alumniplans.com/memphis or call Mercer's award-winning customer service at 888.560.ALUM. Please be advised that, effective January 1, 2014, our third-party insurance administrator will change its name from Marsh U.S. Consumer, a service of Seabury &amp; Smith Inc., to Mercer Consumer, a service of Mercer Health &amp; Benefits Administration LLC. Mercer is a global leader in talent, health, retirement and investments. Mercer and Marsh are both subsidiaries of Marsh &amp; McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC). This is an internal realignment within MMC only, allowing Mercer Consumer the ability to provide our membership with the best possible products and services. While you will notice the name will change on our website, in bills, and in other communications, you can expect a seamless transition, with no effect to your current insurance coverage or the services provided. Disclaimer: The University of Memphis Alumni Association provides these discount programs as a service to our alumni; their inclusion should not be considered an endorsement of the products and services provided by these vendors. The vendors supplying the benefits herein are solely responsible for: (a) providing and administering the products and services comprising the benefits; (b) all of the information, statements and representations with respect to the benefits. The Alumni Association disavows all responsibility and liability whatsoever for any information, statements, representations, services or products provided to you with respect to the benefits. Any action you take with respect to the benefits will be at your own risk without any recourse or liability whatsoever to the Alumni Association. Membership Join Now Services &amp; Benefits List of Benefits Email365 Insurance Travel New Grads Students Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .