#http://www.memphis.edu/govern/federal.php
Federal Government - Government Relations - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of Government Relations Staff Papasan Institute Local Government State Government Federal Governemnt Home Government Relations Federal Government Federal Goverment At the Federal level, the Office of Government Relations works directly with congressional staff on all policy issues impacting higher education. We also develop earmark requests for funding of research and university projects. As part of the President's staff, The Office of Government Relations represents the University of Memphis through direct contact with elected officials, as well as with administrators within various federal agencies. Our staff monitors legislation and budget appropriations, in addition to assisting federal staff members to host various events from year to year on major policy issues. Project Highlights Biofuels Micro-Refineries for Local Sustainability The UofM Center for Biofuel Energy and Sustainable Technologies The Center for Biofuel Energy and Sustainable Technologies (BEST) at the University of Memphis was established to formulate effective holistic responses to our national energy system challenges. At present, the biofuel industry is undergoing rapid evolution. Every day brings the announcement of a new scientific discovery or achievement related to a new feedstock or conversion process. This University of Memphis program will establish local micro-refineries, capable of supplying energy required to support the local community utilizing completely renewable resources. This approach of harnessing renewable resources produced locally, such as used vegetable oil, brown grease from waste grease traps, and waste wood and paper products, will dramatically expand the number of communities and states that would benefit economically from the use of renewable fuels. These micro-refineries will use local waste and biomass, while being locally owned and operated. Memphis Center for Entrepreneurship &amp; Innovation The Memphis area is the major economic center for West Tennessee and the Mid-South region. Memphis has a strong history of entrepreneurship, but lags behind other regions of the nation in creating new businesses and, in particular, knowledge-based businesses. Because of this regional economic need, the University of Memphis is creating the Memphis Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation. Led by the FedEx Institute of Technology, and partnering with the Fogelman College of Business and Finance and the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, the Center will provide the expertise to deliver a "one-stop shop" model for entrepreneurs. The Center will connect entrepreneurs to the public and private resource pools necessary for business growth, while providing business and legal expertise. Water Resources Development Act The UofM Ground Water Institute After years of negotiating, in 2007 Congress passed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) by overriding a presidential veto. Once approved, WRDA authorized a collection of Army Corps of Engineers water infrastructure projects totaling $23 billion. Supporters of WRDA believe the high cost can be attributed to the backlog of projects since WRDA was last updated in 2000. It is supposed to be updated every year. Included in the Act, the Mississippi Embayment Groundwater Project, a collaboration between the University of Memphis, Arkansas State, and the University of Mississippi, is authorized for $5 million. Memphis-Shelby County Operation Safe Communities The UofM Center for Community Criminology and Research The University of Memphis, the City of Memphis, Shelby County, and other law enforcement agencies have partnered their efforts to fight violent crime and gang violence in Memphis. The University received a combined total of $2.452 million from federal earmarks in FY'08, all of which is being contributed to this community partnership. Center for Earthquake Research &amp; Information The CERI is one of six regional centers funded by U.S. Geological Survey dedicated to providing research and information about earthquake hazards as part of the Advanced National Seismic System (ANSS). CERI receives funding from the state of Tennessee both directly and through the university. The University of Memphis CERI possesses unique research capabilities in seismic hazard and is poised to become a national leader in seismic analysis. It is critical that ANSS appropriation is funded at its annual authorization of $36 million. An increase in funding will allow the USGS ANSS program to expand its research capabilities, as well as directly impact the CERI at the UofM. Transportation Center UofM Transportation Institute The U.S. Department of Transportation's Research and Innovative Technology Administration awarded the Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute at the University of Memphis, in a consortia partnership with the University of Wisconsin-Madison, the coveted designation as a Tier 1 University Transportation Center worth $3.5 million for two years. Intelligent Network-Centric Sensor Development Program A challenge for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) is fighting unknown adversaries that can exploit our lack of situational awarness. Innovative technologies are critical for effective defense efforts. To build upon the FY10 funding the University of Memphis will continue to work toward requesting funding from the DoD for persistent surveillance and synergistic sensor research, including but not limited to networked sensors, network security, and sensor fusion techniques. West Tennessee Earthquake Forum Watch the video Alternate Energy Panel Forum Watch the video Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .