#http://www.memphis.edu/csd/people/dwark.php
David J. Wark, Ph.D. - School of Communication Sciences and Disorders - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Student Organizations Resources News People Faculty Staff PhD Students Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders People David J. Wark, Ph.D. David J. Wark. Ph.D. Director of Graduate Studies, School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Phone 901.678.5800 Email dwark@memphis.edu Fax 901.525.1282 Office 4055 N. Park Loop, Room 3017E Office Hours By appointment Website CVS About David Wark Dr. David Wark joind the faculty in 1973. He is the director of the Audiologic Rehabilitation Laboratory. Dr. Wark is also the Director of Graduate Studies for the School of Communnication Sciences and Disorders. Education B.A. Speech Pathology, University of Alabama,1965 M.A. Audiology, University of Alabama,1967 Ph.D. Hearing &amp; Speech Science, Indiana University,1971 Experience Professional Coming soon. Administrative Director of Graduate Studies Honors and Awards Fellow - American Speech-Language-Hearing Association - 2000 Research and Scholarly Activities Research Interests Audiologic Rehabilitation Publications Coming soon Grants Coming soon. Resources Support Coming soon. Service University Faculty Promotion &amp; Tenure Appeals Committee - 1979-1981, 1991-1993 University Subcommittee on Graduate Programs, SACS Self Study - 1992-1993 Teacher Education Advisory Committee, College of Education, UM - 1994-1999 University Steering Committee on SACS Accreditation - 2003-2005 Memphis Advisory Council for the Hearing Impaired, Inc. - Board of Directors - 1976-1983 Tennessee Board of Examiners for SLP and AUD - - 1975-1977 Tennessee Board of Hearing Aid Dispensers - Advisory Council - 1977-1979 Education and Training Board, ASHA - Site Visitor - 1978-1980 Memphis Oral School for the Deaf - Board of Directors - 1979-1982 ASHA - Audiologic Standards Committee - 1983-1985 ASHA - Legislative Council for State of Tennessee - 1987-88-89 Professional Standards Board, ASHA - Site Visitor - 1984-1996 ASHA Special Interest Division #7 - Aural Rehabilitation - Steering Committee - 1994-1998 Ad Hoc Committee on Scope of Practice in Audiology, ASHA - Chair - 1994-95 Academy of Rehabilitative Audiology - Treasurer - 1996-99 ASHA - Board of Division Coordinators - 1996-98 ASHA, Aural Rehabilitation &amp; Its Instrumentation - Coordinator, ASHA Special Interest Division 7 - 1996-1998 Academy of Rehabilitative Audiology - Treasurer - 1998-99 ASHA, Select Panel on Audiology - Member - 1997 ASHA - Audiological Rehabilitation Working Group - 1998-1999 ASHA - Legislative Council for the State of Tennessee - 1999 -2002 Academy of Rehabilitative Audiology - President - 2001-2002 ASHA - Legislative Council for the State of Tennessee - 2003-2006 ASHA - Audiology Assembly Of Legislative Council - Co-Chair of the Audiology Assembly - 2003 ASHA Legislative Council - Legislative Council Program Review Group (LCPRG) Chair of committee to review Ethics Program - 2004-2005 ASHA - Audiology Assembly Of Legislative Council - Committee (Chair) on Evidenced Based Practice - 2004-2005 ASHA Special Interest Division #7 - Steering Committee - 2005-2007 ASHA Board of Ethics - Board Member - 2006-2008 People Faculty Staff PhD Students Apply Now Want to pursue a degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders? Find out how to apply. Support the School Help support the School with the funding of various initiatives. Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Learn about our in-house clinical training facility. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .