#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11446
HVAC Mechanic General Maintenance Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS HVAC Mechanic General Maintenance Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE823 Advertised Title HVAC Mechanic General Maintenance Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 001985 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department Physical Plant Minimum Position Qualifications Associate’s Degree in relevant area, two years of appropriate experience, and a valid driver’s license required. Relevant experience may substitute for education. Special Conditions May require EPA certification. Work Schedule Wednesday &#8211; Sunday 7:30 am to 3:30 pm Must be able to periodically work after normal business hours to address emergencies. Posting Date 11/06/2015 Closing Date 11/23/2015 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range $16.00 to $18.10 per hour Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to use hands to handle, or feel. The employee frequently is required to stand; walk; sit; reach with hands and arms; climb or balance; stoop, kneel, or crouch; and talk or hear. The employee must frequently lift and/or move up to 25 pounds, occasionally lift and/or move up to 75 pounds and push or pull up to 1000 pounds with appropriate tools or moving equipment. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision, and color vision. While performing the duties of this job, the employee is occasionally exposed to wet and humid conditions, fumes and airborne particles, toxic chemicals, close spaces and is required to climb ladders to access equipment in high and/or precarious places. The noise level in the work environment is usually moderate. Additional Working Conditions Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Attends meetings, briefings, and training classes to increase knowledge and job performance. Duties & Responsibilities Maintains mechanical equipment rooms in a neat and orderly fashion. Duties & Responsibilities Performs preventive maintenance on heating and cooling system equipment. Duties & Responsibilities Repairs or replaces other cooling or mechanical equipment including refrigerators, freezers, pumps and shop equipment. Duties & Responsibilities Responds to cold or hot calls; starts or stops chillers and boilers. Duties & Responsibilities Tracks time, man-hours, refrigerant usage; orders parts; coordinates with outside suppliers. Duties & Responsibilities Troubleshoots and resolves problems in heating and air conditioning systems: locates problems and repairs or replaces defective parts. Duties & Responsibilities Other related duties as assigned. Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). * Do you have a valid driver&#x27;s license? YES NO Applicant Documents Required Documents Optional Documents Resume Cover Letter