#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/records/release.php
Release of Student Education Record - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Home Registrar Students Release of Student Education Record Release of Student Education Records The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) prevents the University from releasing "personally identifiable student education records" to unauthorized individuals or organizations without the student's written consent. (To see what is considered a student education record at UofM, refer to Inventory of Academic and Student Education Records. ) However, University employees (ex., advisors) who have a legitimate need to see these records, and parents who can prove that a student is still a dependent for tax purposes, can view these records if they follow the proper procedures. The portion of the education record known as "Directory Information" is available to the public unless access to it is restricted by the student. What is Directory Information? Directory Information is personal student data that can be published in a Campus Telephone Directory or used to identify a student to outside agencies. Directory Information is treated in a professional manner by the University and its employees. The following pieces of student information are considered Directory Information: Student Name Student U-Number (University ID number) Address Telephone Listing Email address Major field of study Expected Date of Graduation Cumulative Earned Hours Date of Birth Participation in officially recognized Activities and Sports Weight and Height - ** Members of Athletic Teams Only ** Dates of Attendance Degrees, including Date of Graduation Awards Received (e.g., Dean's List, Graduation Honors) Most recent Previous Education Agency or Institution attended Current Enrollment Status: (1) Number of Hours currently enrolled in, (2) Status (Part-time or Full-time), and (3) Classification (Freshman, Sophomore, etc.) University Student-Employment Status If you are a student, you have the right to prevent your Directory Information from being published in the Campus Directory or released to outside agencies. If you elect to suppress your Directory Information, ALL of it will be suppressed. We cannot release some information and suppress the rest. You may suppress your Directory Information in one of two ways: Login to iAM and restrict your information electronically: After logging in, select "Update Personal Information," and then "Restrict Release of Student Directory Information (FERPA)." Read the information carefully. If you still want to restrict your information, check "Restrict my directory information" and then click the [Update] button. Complete a Request to Restrict the Release of Directory Information form and turn it in to The Registrar's Office, 003 Wilder Tower. (The form is in pdf format; if you cannot print it, you may obtain a copy from the Registrar's Office.) Restricting access to your Directory Information may have some undesired consequences; these are explained on the "Request to Restrict..." form. If you have any questions about these consequences, ask about them at the Registrar's Office. Who May Request or Release Copies of Student Records? University of Memphis Faculty and Staff You may request copies of student records, provided you have a legitimate need for these records that pertains to your duties at the University. Never release these records directly to the student. Also, do not release a student's records to a third party unless both the student's written authorization and an approved procedure--developed with the assistance of the Registrar's Office for the student's particular requirements (e.g., packaging of application materials for Nursing Certification)--are on file in the Registrar's Office. Read : Faculty and Staff Access to Student Records . University of Memphis Students You may authorize the release of your record to someone (ex., a parent or guardian) other than a University of Memphis employee. Read : Student Consent to Release Education Record . Parents of University of Memphis Students If you have claimed the student as a dependent for tax purposes in the most recent tax year, you may request a copy of your student's record. Read : Parent Access to Student Record . Researchers/Others If you do not fall into one of the above categories and wish to request an exception to the requirements, (ex., you need the information to conduct legitimate research), you must request and receive approval through the Institutional Review Board. Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .