#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/bus/bit.php
BIT Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning BIT Courses BUSINESS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (MIS) NOTE: Students taking Business courses will be charged an additional $35 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MIS 6000-09. Topics in Teaching Methods in Information Technology. (3). Selected topics of current interest in management information systems and computer software applications. Designed for teacher certification requirements. Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. NOTE: Restricted to teacher certification; not applicable toward business degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MIS 7470-9–8470-9. Topics in Information Systems. (1-3). Studies in ISDS as applied to solution of current operational problems in businesses. Topics change each semester as determined by relevant developments in decision sciences; consult the online class listings for current topic. (Maximum 9 hours credit.) PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MIS 8700-9. Topics in Information Systems. (1-3). In-depth study of selected current topics in MIS and related areas. Topics change each semester as determined by relevant developments; consult online class listings for current topic. (Maximum of 9 hours credit). PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MIS 7030 - Integ Software Appl (3) Emphasizes mastery of suite application software using an integrated approach to software applications and employing problem-based methods; course meets licensure standards. MIS 7060 - Program Devel & File Str (3) Programming principles, program logic development, internal data structures, and file organization; development of structures and computer programs using a modern programming language. MIS 7070 - Intro to MIS in Business (3) Provides essential business core content needed for IS/IT management; examines effective methods of hiring and maintaining qualified IS/IT employees, using accounting and financial information effectively for IS/IT strategic decisions and leadership. MIS 7160 - Comp Hardware/Sys Softw (3) Introduction to the technology of computing; processor operation including fetch/execute, input/output, instruction types, interrupt handling, addressing schemes and multiprocessing; business systems software including operating systems from single-user single-task to multi-user multitask; major current operating systems. MIS 7170 - Global Info Tech Mgmt (3) Information technology's impact on globalization of businesses; international IT environment; models and issues in international IS; planning and managing global systems; case studies and applications. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7465 or permission of instructor. MIS 7190 - Programing For Business (3) Fundamentals of programming for business projects, including Internet-based business applications and object-oriented programming languages. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7060 or permission of instructor. MIS 7435 - Web Site Devel (3) Focuses on Internet, intranets, and other online technologies to develop and maintain the enterprise web site in a business environment; web mastering techniques include coverage of web site creation, design, programming, planning, enhancement, and maintenance. MIS 7455 - Cyber Ethics in IT (3) Business ethics and computer ethics issues and concepts in an online environment, including relevant topics such as privacy, freedom of expression, intellectual property, software development and testing, and related IT management decisions. PREREQUISITE: 9 hours of graduate credit or permission of instructor. MIS 7480 - Thriving In Info Age (3) Introduction to information and technology challenges facing today's organization, including developing technology-enabled strategies and designing organizational systems and structures that facilitate development and execution of these strategies. MIS 7605 - Bus Database Systems (3) Management of database for effective support of management information systems. Topics include characteristics and design of schemas and subschemas for hierarchical, network, and relational data models. MIS 7610 - Sys Analysis & Design (3) Comprehensive structured approach to application system development process; emphasis on requirements analysis, logical specifications, structured design, and implementation of information systems. MIS 7615 - Data Comm Systms/Netwks (3) Introduction to concepts and terminology of data communication, network design, and distributed information systems; topics include equipment protocols and architectures, transmission alternatives, the communications environment, regulatory issues, and network pricing and management. MIS 7620 - Business Intelligence (3) Business Intelligence is the study of computerized support for management decision making. Topics include data mining, artificial neural networks, text and web mining, data warehousing, expert systems, and knowledge management. PREREQUISITES or COREQUISITES: MIS 7605, ISDS 7120 or equivalent, or permission of the instructor. MIS 7621 - Data Analytics for Business (3) This advanced course in business analytics goes into depth in techniques and methods applied to real world problems and data. Techniques covered include: artificial neural networks, decision trees, nearest neighbor approaches, predictive modeling, and genetic algorithms. The emphasis will be on application in business. The course will provide guidance on building the business case and the model including problem definition and data evaluation, and evaluation of the modal. Hands-on exercises will be required using analytics packages/languages as Tableau, Rapid Miner, IBM Modeler, Microsoft SQL, R. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: MIS 7620 and SCMS 7110, or instructor permission. MIS 7630 - Informatn Systms Proj (3) Development or evaluation or both of specialized software product; field studies to collect and analyze data pertinent to significant information systems issues. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7610. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MIS 7640 - Inform Sys Mgmt/Plan (3) Information systems planning and management for the corporate executive and information systems manager; emphasis on information as a critical resource and its role in policy and long-range planning. PREREQUISITES: MIS 7605 and 7615. COREQUISITES: MIS 7610. MIS 7650 - Info Syst Global Enterprise (3) Information systems and their roles and applications in global enterprises, including conceptual foundations, business applications, impacts on organizational behavior, and how IT may be used to implement global strategies to gain competitive advantage. MIS 7655 - Adv Systems Analysis (3) Advanced concepts in information systems planning and development with focus on current information technologies and systems development practices that lead to timely delivery of effective information systems solutions; special attention on communication and interpersonal skills required for today's systems development activities. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7610. MIS 7660 - Advanced Data Management (3) Advanced concepts in data management and in the strategic use of data. Topics will be selected from data strategy, business intelligence, data mining and the strategic use of data warehouses, data quality, the business value of data, unstructured data, modern data administration, master data management, data management in cloud computing, data issues in agile development, and other contemporary data topics. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7605. MIS 7665 - Adv Business Compt Envn (3) Technical aspects and managerial implications of several state-of-the-art technologies with potential effects on competitive advantage, probability and cost, and personnel resources. PREREQUISITES: MIS 7605, 7610, and 7615; or permission of the instructor. MIS 7670 - Comp/Network Security (3) Comprehensive survey of technical and managerial aspects of computer and network security in the business environment. Emphasis is on managerial issues and decisions related to selecting and managing all aspects of information security. MIS 7671 - Project/Change Mgmt (3) Overview of theoretical and practical concepts in management of IT projects; explores unique and particular challenges resulting from rapid technological change and dynamic business environments; difficulty of managing changes in organizations resulting from introducing or revising information systems, emphasizing change management role of the IS specialist. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: MIS 7610 or equivalent MIS 7672 - Advanced Project Management (3) The objective of this course is to examine the process and team factors, with an emphasis on the technology and global factors of project management. Individuals will learn advanced information systems project management principles and strategies. In addition, those taking this course will learn team building within the information systems project realm and how collaboration technologies are used to support project teams. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: MIS 7671 or equivalent; permission of instructor. MIS 7681 - Mgmt of Software Testing (3) Topics will include software testing goals, objectives, planning techniques, and managerial structures. It will also cover manual and automated software testing techniques and test case generation. Prerequisite or Corequisite: MIS 7610. MIS 7682 - Software Test Tools/Tech (3) Topics will include detailed software testing methods and the role of software testers and users at all stages of software development, walkthroughs and reviews, as well as unit through acceptance testing techniques. Prerequisite: MIS 7681. MIS 7910 - Prob Mgmt Info Syst (1-6) Directed independent research projects in an area selected by the student with approval of supervising faculty member and Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MIS 7996 - Thesis (3-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MIS 8465 - Inform Sys In Organiztns (3) Information systems and their roles and applications in organizations, including conceptual foundations, underlying technologies, business applications, impacts on organizational behavior, and how IT may be used to implement organizational strategy and gain competitive advantage. MIS 8605 - Bus Database Systems (3) Management of database for effective support of management information systems. Topics include characteristics and design of schemas and subschemas for hierarchical, network, and relational data models. MIS 8610 - Sys Analysis & Design (3) Comprehensive structured approach to application system development process; emphasis on requirements analysis, logical specifications, structured design, and implementation of information systems. MIS 8615 - Data Comm Systms/Netwks (3) Introduction to concepts and terminology of data communication, network design, and distributed information systems; topics include equipment protocols and architectures, transmission alternatives, the communications environment, regulatory issues, and network pricing and management. MIS 8620 - Business Intelligence (3) Business Intelligence is the study of computerized support for management decision making. Topics include data mining, artificial neural networks, text and web mining, data warehousing, expert systems, and knowledge management. PREREQUISITES or COREQUISITES: MIS 8605, ISDS 7120 or equivalent, or permission of the instructor. MIS 8640 - Inform Sys Mgmt/Plan (3) Information systems planning and management for the corporate executive and information systems manager; emphasis on information as a critical resource and its role in policy and long-range planning. PREREQUISITES: MIS 7605 and 7615. COREQUISITES: MIS 7610. MIS 8650 - Global Informatn Techn (3) Information technology's impact on globalizations of businesses; international IT environment; models and issues in international IS; planning and managing global systems; case studies and applications. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7465 or permission of instructor. MIS 8655 - Adv Systems Analysis (3) Advanced concepts in information systems planning and development with focus on current information technologies and systems development practices that lead to timely delivery of effective information systems solutions; special attention on communication and interpersonal skills required for today's systems development activities. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7610. MIS 8660 - Adv Networking/Data Mgt (3) Advanced concepts in data management and in the strategic use of data. Topics will be selected from data strategy, business intelligence, data mining and the strategic use of data warehouses, data quality, the business value of data, unstructured data, modern data administration, master data management, data management in cloud computing, data issues in agile development, and other contemporary data topics. PREREQUISITE: MIS 7605. MIS 8665 - Adv Business Compt Envn (3) Technical aspects and managerial implications of several state-of-the-art technologies with potential effects on competitive advantage, probability and cost, and personnel resources. PREREQUISITES: MIS 7605, 7610, and 7615; or permission of the instructor. MIS 8670 - Comp/Network Security (3) Comprehensive survey of technical and managerial aspects of computer and network security in the business environment. Emphasis is on managerial issues and decisions related to selecting and managing all aspects of information security. MIS 8710 - Sem/Inform Systms I (3) Scientific methodology of MIS research; MIS frameworks and theory of MIS; organization-critique and analyze foundational papers; in-depth study of researchable topics. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MIS 8720 - Sem/Inform Systms II (3) Development of a research proposal; critique and evaluation related to research and the proposal. PREREQUISITE: MIS 8710 or permission of instructor. MIS 8800 - Experimental Research Methods (3) This seminar provides in-depth coverage of experimental design research issues and methods in business research. At the completion of the seminar, students should have in-depth knowledge on how to frame questions and hypotheses that are testable using experimental designs, how to frame an experimental study, how to acquire data, conduct the experiment, perform analyses with popular statistical software, and how to write-up research results from an experiment. Course includes weekly lecture and hands-on laboratory sessions. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MIS 8910 - Prob Mgmt Info Syst (1-6) Directed independent research projects in an area selected by the student with approval of supervising faculty member and Faculty Director. Proposed plan of study must be approved prior to enrollment. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .