#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/ccfa/arch.php
Architecture - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Architecture Architecture MICHAEL D. HAGGE, MArch, MCRP Chair Room 404, Jones Hall 901.678.2724 SHERRY BRYAN, MArch Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901.678.2724 E-mail: sbrynhgg@memphis.edu Master of Architecture (MArch) The first professional Master of Architecture degree is for individuals with a pre-professional degree in architecture, environmental design, or equivalent program of study. The professional curriculum comprises the four-year Bachelor of Fine Arts in Architecture and the two-year Master of Architecture degrees. The post-professional Master of Architecture degree is for individuals already holding a professional degree in architecture who are interested in pursuing opportunities for research, teaching, and independent studies. The Department of Architecture is a member of the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture. In the United States, most state registration boards require a degree from an accredited professional degree program as a prerequisite for licensure. The National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB), which is the sole agency authorized to accredit U.S. professional degree programs in architecture, recognizes three types of degrees: the Bachelor of Architecture, the Master of Architecture, and the Doctor of Architecture. A program may be granted a 6-year, 3-year, or 2-year term of accreditation, depending on the extent of its conformance with established educational standards. Doctor of Architecture and Master of Architecture degree programs may consist of a pre-professional undergraduate degree and a professional graduate degree that, when earned sequentially, constitute an accredited professional education. However, the pre-professional degree is not, by itself, recognized as an accredited degree. The University of Memphis, Department of Architecture, offers the following NAAB-accredited degree program: M.Arch. (pre-professional degree + 60 graduate credits) Next accreditation visit: 2015 Program Objectives: The program of study for the Master of Architecture encompasses both the art and the science of design and is structured to engage students in the processes and professional standards of architecture and design. Through a series of professional core and elective courses, students (1) become competent in a range of intellectual, spatial, technical, and interpersonal skills; (2) understand the historical, socio-cultural, and environmental context of architecture; (3) are able to solve architectural design problems, including the integration of technical systems and health and safety requirements; and (4) comprehend the roles and responsibilities of the architect in society. The culturally diverse Memphis and Mid-South region serves as an urban and non-urban issues laboratory. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. A. Program Admission In addition to application to the Graduate School, all persons making application to the MArch degree program must submit the following materials directly to the Department of Architecture: Portfolio: Applicant portfolios are reviewed for demonstration of aesthetic judgment, basic design ability, visual investigation skills, and abilities in architectural design, including identification of building elements and an understanding of their assembly, integration of building systems, a knowledge of building structure, and other evidence of understanding and abilities conforming to NAAB performance criteria. Letters of Recommendation: Three letters of recommendation are required. Statement of Intent: Applicants must submit a two-page essay describing professional background, objectives, and motivation for pursuing graduate study in Architecture. This brief statement should reflect an individual interest in this graduate program and provide some indication of professional goals or intentions. All admission documents and portfolio must be received by 15 March for fall admission. Students who, in the judgment of the faculty, have adequate preparation may be given advanced standing. B. Program Prerequisites Persons making application to the first professional MArch degree program must have completed an approved pre-professional undergraduate degree in Architecture, Environmental Design, or the equivalent. In assessing the pre-professional degree, the following course content or evidence of equivalent experience is required. Otherwise, the appropriate courses must be taken at the undergraduate level: Architectural Graphics (both technical and freehand drawing), 6 semester hours Architectural History (ancient through modern), 6 semester hours Structural Design Principles (statics; strength of materials; gravity and lateral load tracing; design in timber, steel, concrete), 6 semester hours Building Materials and Assembly (light construction), 3 semester hours Environmental Systems (heat, light, sound, human comfort), 3 semester hours Architectural Design Studio (in addition to "design fundamentals" courses), 20 semester hours Where slight deficiencies in preparation exist, applicants may be admitted with the stipulation that they complete additional design studio or supporting courses. These may not count toward the required graduate plan of study. Persons making application to the post-professional MArch degree program must have completed a NAAB-accredited professional undergraduate degree in architecture. The Architecture Program director may approve a maximum of 30 semester hours in architecture course work from the professional degree. Registration as an architect in the United States may be substituted for the professional degree. C. Program Requirements A minimum of 60 semester hours, including 6 hours of thesis studio or professional project studio. A total of 36 semester hours of Architecture core courses, consisting of 18 semester hours of advanced architectural design studios (ARCH 7711, 7712, 7713), 9 semester hours of architectural seminars (ARCH 7011, 7012, 7013), and 9 semester hours of architectural theory and advanced professional and technical courses (ARCH 7211, 7421, 7431) A minimum of 3 semester hours of Architecture Research (ARCH 7930) and 6 semester hours of Architecture Thesis Studio (ARCH 7996) or Professional Project Studio (ARCH 7995). The thesis or professional project must be approved by a faculty committee. Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Students receiving assistantships are required to take a minimum of 12 credit hours per semester. D. Transfer of Credits The Architecture program director may recommend to the Graduate School acceptance of no more than 12 semester hours of credit for architecture course work successfully completed at another institution. For students formerly enrolled in programs accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board, a maximum of 30 semester hours in architecture course work may be approved. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .