#http://www.memphis.edu/law/documents/2014mootcourt.pdf
University of Memphis 2013 - 2014 Moot Court Board Chief Justice Lee Whitwell Associate Chief Justice Jasen Durrence Associate Justice Advanced Moot Court Whitney Manning Associate Justice Mock Trial Sam Hinson Associate Justice 1L Competition Abigail Hall Faculty Advisor and Director of Advocacy Barbara Kritchevsky Moot Court Board The Moot Court Board of the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law of the University of Memphis is dedicated to recognizing and fostering excellence in both appell ate and trial advocacy. The M oot Court Board consists of twenty third - year law students who the outgoing board selects from the most qualified applicants. The incoming board is announced during the spring semester prior to the 1L competition. The Moot C o urt B oard is primarily responsible for organizing and coordinating all intra - school competitions. The B oard also fields teams for inter - school competitions. The traveling teams have been consistently competitive with some of the most prestigious schools in the country and have proudly represented the University of Memph is every year. Annual In - School Competitions Each year the M oot Court B oard admin isters and facilitates three in - school competitions. The in - school competitions provide great opportunities for students to develop and sharpen their writing and oral advocacy skills. All students are encouraged to participate. Participants can earn course credit. Winning teams and high - scoring individuals receive awards at the end of each competition. Fall Semester Advanced Moot Court C ompetition: Second and third - year students present appellate - style arguments before a mock Supreme C ourt. First - year students may serve as bailiffs . Spring Semester Mock T rial C ompetition : Second and third - year students conduct a mock jury trial from start to finish. Jury members are welcome, but competition judges decide the final outcome of each round. First - year students may serve as witnesses or ba i liffs during each round. 1L C ompetition : First - year students craft arguments for the legal issues that they brief in Legal Methods. Competitors engage in persuasive dialogue with a panel of judges. How D o I Join T he Moot Court Board? The Moot Court B oard is selected each year from the most qualified advocates. Second - year law students must sign up in the spring and submit a grade authorization release f o rm. The -- a score based on oral and brief scores, round - advancement, and the lism determine who makes th e B oard. Members of inter - school competition teams receive bonus credit. Students must participate in at least two board - sponsored competitions (in - school or travel teams) during their first and second years of law school and b e in good academic standing to be eligible for board membership. Inter - school Competition Teams The Moot Court B oard fields and supports teams that represent the law school at inter - school competitions. Travel team participants develop advanced advocacy skills through individualized coaching from faculty and local attorneys. Travel T eams National Moot Court Frederick Douglass Moot C ourt National Mock Trial Thurgood Marshall Mock Trial ABA Moot Court Jessup Inter national Law Moot Court Duberstein Bankruptcy Moot Court Wag ner Labor Law Moot Court ABA Mediation