#http://www.memphis.edu/graduateadmissions/future/residency.php
Residency Information - Graduate Admissions - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Admissions Future Students Readmission International School of Law Undergraduate Future Students Getting Started Request Information Visit the Graduate School Academic Programs Graduate Catalog Apply for Admission Admission Requirements Admission Procedures Application Checklist Residency Information EVEA Application Deadline Border County Waiver Assistantships Apply Now! What to Expect Acknowledgement Application Review Admission Decision After Acceptance Registration ID Card Parking Fee Payment Home Graduate Admissions Future Students Residency Information Residency Information The full description of the TBR policies governing residency for fee-paying purposes is located on TBR's website: TBR Residency Policy You will see that, in general, the policies can be summarized as follows: If a student’s primary source of support is the parents, then at least one of the parents must be a resident of the state of Tennessee for the student to count as in-state. NOTE: If a student has begun his or her studies as an in-state student, the student stays in-state as long as he or she remains continuously enrolled even if the parent subsequently moves to another state. If the student is “emancipated,” i.e. not supported primarily through the parents, a student must have their “domicile” in the state of Tennessee. Normally, a student establishes domicile by residing in Tennessee for at least two regular (fall or spring) semesters before enrolling full-time at a college or university in Tennessee. Students who have been residents of Tennessee for less than the normal period must clearly establish that they moved to Tennessee for reasons other than educational purposes before enrolling at a college or university in Tennessee. Some examples of documentation could be copies of a lease or mortgage information, TN driver’s license, utility bill, TN voter’s registration, etc. As long as an out-of-state student is continuously enrolled full-time at an institution of higher-education in Tennessee, the assumption is that they are here primarily for educational purposes. The spouse of a student classified as in-state shall also be classified as in-state. (Note: the spouse must be a student . A copy of the marriage certificate should be provided) An out-of-state student attending the University of Memphis on a part-time basis (11 hrs max for undergraduate students and 8 hrs max for graduate students) may pay fees at an in-state rate in a given semester if they can establish, prior to the beginning of the semester, that he or she is employed full-time in the state of Tennessee. A letter of employment must be provided by the employer each semester. Information should be included verifying that the student is employed full-time (minimum of 37.5 hours per week.) An active duty military personnel whose ‘Home of Record’ is Tennessee but who is stationed elsewhere is considered an in-state student for fee paying purposes. Applicants who provide evidence that they have been transferred by their employer to Tennessee will be considered in-state. A letter from the employer is required prior to the beginning of the semester for documentation. Students who are non-immigrant visa holders will be considered as non-residents for fee paying purposes. Students who are on a work related visa (H-1) may be eligible to pay in-state fees providing that they work full-time in Tennessee and enroll part-time. Documentation should be provided by the employer prior to the beginning of the semester. Applicants who hold an “H-4” visa and who have applied for “Dual Intent Status” must provide documentation validating the filing to be considered for in-state tuition. Non-immigrant visa holders who have been approved for Permanent Residency status must provide one the following as documentation to be considered an in-state student for fee paying purposes; congratulatory letter from Homeland Security, stamped passport, or copy of green card. Asylum and refugee classifications are considered to be Permanent Residents. A copy of the I-94 card is required. Admissions/non-resident Fee Waivers 1. Academic Common Market 2. Border County fee waivers 3. Employed full-time in Tennessee/Enrolled part-time 4. Military – Active duty military and their dependents stationed in Tennessee regardless of their ‘Home of Record’ will be eligible to pay in-state fees. Bursar Fee Discounts/Waivers Please consult the policies posted on the site for a precise and detailed description of these policies. The Office of Admissions is also available to answer any questions you might have at 901-678-2111. Future Students Getting Started Request Information Visit the Graduate School Academic Programs Graduate Catalog Apply for Admission Admission Requirements Admission Procedures Application Checklist Residency Information EVEA Application Deadline Border County Waiver Assistantships Apply Now! What to Expect Acknowledgement Application Review Admission Decision After Acceptance Registration ID Card Parking Fee Payment Apply Now! Ready to begin your graduate application? Request Information Learn more about your True Blue Future Graduate School Get more information about graduate programs. Contact Us Phone, email and location for Graduate Admissions Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .