#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/
College of Arts and Sciences - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning College of Arts and Sciences THOMAS J. NENON, PhD Dean ROGER KREUZ, PhD Associate Dean for Graduate Studies &amp; Research and Director of Graduate Programs Department or Division Major Concentration Within Major Degree Offered Anthropology Anthropology (1) Medical Anthropology (2) Globalization, Development, and Culture Master of Arts (MA) Biological Sciences Biological Sciences Master of Science (MS) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Chemistry Chemistry (1) Analytical Chemistry (2) Computational Chemistry (3) Inorganic (4) Organic (5) Physical Chemistry Master of Science (MS) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) City and Regional Planning* City and Regional Planning Master of City and Regional Planning (MCRP) Computer Science Computer Science Applied Computer Science Master of Science (MS) Computer Science Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Information Assurance Graduate Certificate Criminology and Criminal Justice* Criminal Justice Master of Arts (MA) Earth Sciences Earth Sciences Geography Master of Arts (MA) Earth Sciences (1) Archaeology (2) Geography (3) Geology (4) Geophysics (5) Interdisciplinary Studies Master of Science (MS) Earth Sciences Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Geographic Information Systems Graduate Certificate English English (1) Composition Studies (2) English as a Second Language (3) Language and Linguistics (4) Literature (5) Professional Writing Master of Arts (MA) Creative Writing Master of Fine Arts (MFA) English (1) Applied Linguistics (2) Composition Studies (3) Professional Writing (4) Literary and Cultural Studies Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) African American Literature Graduate Certificate Teaching English as a Second Language Graduate Certificate Foreign Languages and Literatures Romance Languages (1) French (2) Spanish Master of Arts (MA) History History Master of Arts (MA) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Ancient Egyptian History Master of Arts (MA) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Mathematical Sciences Mathematical Sciences (1) Applied Mathematics (2) Mathematics (3) Statistics (4) Teaching of Mathematics Master of Science (MS) (1) Applied Statistics (2) Mathematics Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Philosophy Philosophy Master of Arts (MA) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Physics and Materials Science Physics (1) Computational Physics (2) General Physics (3) Materials Science Master of Science (MS) Political Science Political Science Master of Arts (MA) Dual MA/JD Psychology Psychology General Psychology Master of Science (MS) School Psychology Master of Arts (MA) Psychology (1) Clinical Psychology (2) Experimental Psychology (3) School Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Public and Nonprofit Administration* Public Administration (1) Nonprofit Administration (2) Public Policy and Management Master of Public Administration (MPA) Local Government Management Graduate Certificate Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership Graduate Certificate Social Work* Social Work Master of Social Work (MSW) Sociology Sociology Master of Arts (MA) Interdisciplinary (Art and Anthropology) Museum Studies Graduate Certificate Interdisciplinary Programs Bioinformatics Master of Science Cognitive Science Graduate Certificate Women's and Gender Studies (1) Cultural Studies (2) Inequality &amp; Social Policy Graduate Certificate *These academic units are part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy . The College of Arts and Sciences, which includes the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy, contains fifteen departments and three divisions, each of which offers graduate degrees. The College also offers three interdisciplinary degree programs and several graduate certificate programs. Candidates for each of these degrees must pursue a curriculum plan that has the approval of their major advisor, the department chair or division director, and the Graduate Dean. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued (see departmental or divisional listings in this section). Individual program requirements described in the Graduate School Issue of the 2014-2015 Graduate Catalog of The University of Memphis are subject to change. Please consult your department or the Office of the Graduate School for changes that may occur before publication of the next issue of this Catalog; or consult the Graduate School Web site at: for annual updates. MASTER’S DEGREES: The programs for the MASTER OF ARTS degree are generally open to those who have completed the Bachelor of Arts degree. Those with a Bachelor of Science degree may enroll in these programs if undergraduate prerequisites are met. Students majoring in the following areas may pursue the Master of Arts degree: Anthropology, Criminal Justice, Earth Sciences, English, History, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Romance Languages, and Sociology (see departmental listings). The MASTER OF FINE ARTS IN CREATIVE WRITING is a 48-semester-hour program for students who plan to pursue a career in fiction writing or poetry. Admission to the program is based primarily on a portfolio of work in the student’s chosen genre. The course work includes both literature and writing classes, and culminates with submission of a publishable collection of fiction or poetry as the thesis. The program for the MASTER OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION is generally open to students with preparation in the social sciences or in business courses. Students working toward this interdisciplinary degree complete a core curriculum in public and non-profit administration courses and a concentration in one of the following areas: General Public Administration or Nonprofit Administration. The programs for the MASTER OF SCIENCE degree are generally open to students with a science background. Students enrolled in the following areas may pursue the Master of Science degree: Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Computer Science, Earth Sciences, Mathematical Sciences, Physics, and Psychology (see departmental listings). The MASTER OF CITY AND REGIONAL PLANNING is a professional degree for students interested in government and business careers. Students complete the following: a core curriculum of 30 semester hours; a 15-hour elective curriculum with possible subjects in economic development planning, urban design, land use and transportation planning, planning information systems, housing and community development, planning law, and environmental planning; and a 3-hour Capstone Project that integrates one or more elective subjects with the core curriculum. The mission of the MASTER OF SOCIAL WORK program is to educate advanced professional social workers for practice with at-risk populations, particularly children and families. Housed within the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy (SUAPP), the Department of Social Work is dedicated to (a) educating social workers with knowledge, values and skills for evidence-based practice with children and families, (b) advancing the knowledge base of the social work profession and (c) providing regional leadership in the development and implementation of policies, programs and services for at-risk populations, particularly children and families. DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY DEGREE The Doctor of Philosophy Degree is offered in the following departments within the College of Arts and Sciences: Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Computer Science, Earth Sciences, English, History, Mathematical Sciences, Philosophy, and Psychology. General requirements for the PhD Degree are outlined in these departmental listings. More detailed information about prerequisites, course work, research requirements, etc., may be obtained from the chair or graduate coordinator of the respective departments. Any of these departments may choose to admit a student to doctoral study without requiring the master’s degree as a prerequisite. GRADUATE CERTIFICATES Graduate certificates are offered in African American Literature (Department of English), Cognitive Science (Interdisciplinary), Geographic Information Systems (Department of Earth Sciences), Information Assurance (Department of Computer Science), Local Government Management (Public and Nonprofit Administration), Museum Studies (Departments of Anthropology and Art), Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership (Public and Nonprofit Administration), Teaching English as a Second Language (Department of English), and Women's and Gender Studies (Center for Interdisciplinary Studies). Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .