#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/events/pfwschedule.php
Parent &amp; Family Weekend Schedule - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Events Parent &amp; Family Weekend Schedule of Events FAQ Hotels Finals Care Package Parent of the Year Parent Panel Home Parent &amp; Family Services Events Parent &amp; Family Weekend Schedule Parent &amp; Family Weekend 2015 Schedule of Events Thursday, October 29, 2015 Murder Mystery Party hosted by the Criminal Justice Student Association Noon, University Center Senate Chamber (261) Join the Criminal Justice Student Association for their annual Murder Mystery Party and try to find out whodunnit! Participants will investigate evidence and challenge their detective skills. Packet Pickup Party sponsored by UofM Bookstore &amp; Tiger Copy &amp; Graphics 4:00 pm - 7:00 pm, UofM Bookstore Check in at registration for your Parent &amp; Family Weekend t-shirt, materials and more! Visit the Tiger Photo Booth too! Tiger Photo Booth 4:00 pm - 7:00 pm, UofM Bookstore Step right up, grab a prop, strike a pose, and smile pretty for the camera! Have your photo made in the Tiger Photo booth at packet pick up. Spend an Evening with Gov. Winfield Dunn 6:00 pm Reception, 6:30 pm Program, University Center River Room In a wide-ranging conversation with history professor Charles Crawford, former Governor Winfield Dunn will reflect upon his time in office from 1971-1975 and the larger political transformations in Memphis, Tennessee, the South and the United States over the past 50 years. Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity Haunted House 7:00 pm - 11:00 pm Ready to be frightened? Take a walk through the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity Haunted House. All proceeds are donated to St. Jude Children's Hospital. Cost is $10. This event is not included in the Parent &amp; Family Weekend registration package. University of Memphis Wind Ensemble Concert 7:30 pm, Harris Concert Hall For this evening's concert, the ensemble will present a program ranging from cornerstones of the band repertoire to works that represent the best of today's composers. Tickets free for faculty, staff and students with ID, $15 for general admission, $10 for seniors. This event is not included in the Parent &amp; Family Weekend registration package. Friday, October 30, 2015 Packet Pickup Party sponsored by UofM Bookstore &amp; Tiger Copy &amp; Graphics 10:00 am - 7:00 pm, UofM Bookstore Check in at registration for your Parent &amp; Family Weekend t-shirt, materials and more! Visit the Tiger Photo Booth too! Tiger Photo Booth 10:00 am - 7:00 pm, UofM Bookstore Step right up, grab a prop, strike a pose, and smile pretty for the camera! Have your photo made in the Tiger Photo booth at packet pick up. Tour of the FedEx Institute of Technology 11:00 am, FedEx Institute of Technology Join us for a tour of the FedEx Institute of Technology and see the incubator of innovation on our campus! Included will be a tour of the The Zone, a tiered seating area that uses the same system used by the United Nations. Tour of Library 11:30 am, McWherter Library Learn about the great stores of knowledge available to your student with a guided tour of the McWherter Library. The tour will include the new Center for Writing and Communications with a demonstration of our 3D printer! Involvement Zone Open House 11:30 am- 3:00 pm, University Center Involvement Zone (2nd Floor) Let your students show off their involvement in the Involvement Zone! Registered student organizations, Student Leadership &amp; Involvement, Multicultural Affairs and Adult and Commuter Students Services are opening their offices with fun and games! Lunch on your Own Tiger Dining Facilities Checkout all the great food offerings we have for you on campus in one of our many dining facilities located across campus. Click here for a full list . Scavenger Hunt 2:00 pm, University Center Atrium Participate in the U of M scavenger hunt and learn more about the University of Memphis! Our top two teams will receive a prize pack from the Alumni Association. Chat with the Dean of Students 2:00 pm-3:00 pm, 359 University Center Have a chance to sit down and chat with Mr. Danny Armitage, Dean of Students/Associate Vice President for Student Affairs. This is a great opportunity to ask questions, meet staff members, and mingle with other parents and families. Tour of the Community Health Building 2:00 pm, Community Health Building, Park Avenue Campus Come tour the newest building on campus! The Community Health Building is a state of the art facility that houses the Loewenberg School of Nursing and the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders on the University's Park Avenue Campus. A Blue Line bus will leave at 1:45 pm from the Desoto Avenue turnaround next to the Student Health Center to take participants to the tour and then on to the Athletics Hall of Fame Open House. Athletics Hall of Fame Open House, Meet the Coaches 3:00 pm - 4:00 pm, U of M/Anfernee "Penny" Hardaway Hall of Fame building, 570 Normal Street Visit the Athletics Hall of Fame for a history of athletics at the University of Memphis. Visitors are invited to view memorabilia items, explore the databases and learn about the history of athletics. There will also be an opportunity to meet some awesome Tiger coaches and you can pick up your Joe Jackson or D. J. Stephens bobblehead! Go Tigers Go! Honors Hall Open House 4:00 pm-5:00 pm, Honors Hall Parents and families of Honors students are invited to visit the Helen Hardin Honors building for an open house to visit with staff and view the building. Meet &amp; Greet: Reconnect with the Recruitment &amp; Orientation Staff 4:00 pm-5:00 pm, 101 Wilder Tower Come visit with the Recruitment and Orientation staff! Student Activities Council Movie 5:00 pm, University Center Theatre (145) You and your student can enjoy Pixar's Inside Out in the University Center Theatre! President's Welcome Reception 5:30 pm- 7:00 pm (Comments at 6:00 pm), Administration Building Atrium (2nd Floor) Join us for a reception to welcome all our attendees with a chance to meet and talk with University administrators, including Dr. M. David Rudd, University President, his wife, Dr. Loretta Rudd, Associate Professor of Childhood Development, Dr. Karen Weddle-West, Provost, and Dr. Rosie Phillips Bingham, Vice President for Student Affairs. Hors d' oevres will be served along with wine. Games with Campus Rec 6:00 pm - 7:30 pm Come play some games before the Blue Lantern Tour with Campus Rec! There will be corn hole toss, ladder ball, and some fun Halloween selfies. Blue Lantern Tour 7:00 pm-8:30 pm, Fountain Plaza Take a memorable tour of campus guided by student guides with blue lanterns. You will be met by members of our rich university history and learn of many great traditions we hold. This is sure to be a unique and memorable experience that will provide you with in depth knowledge about our traditions, while also highlighting the campus and its beautiful buildings. There will be an opportunity to Trick-or-Treat at each of the stops on the tour. Women's Volleyball vs. UConn 7:00 pm, Elma Roane Field House Come cheer on the Volleyball team as they take on the University of Connecticut Huskies at Elma Roane Field House on campus! Free Admission! Go Tigers Go! Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity Haunted House 7:00 pm - 11:00 pm Ready to be frightened? Take a walk through the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity Haunted House. All proceeds are donated to St. Jude Children's Hospital. Cost is $10. This event is not included in the Parent &amp; Family Weekend registration package. Saturday, October 31, 2015 Late Packet Pickup sponsored by UofM Bookstore &amp; Tiger Copy &amp; Graphics 8:00 am-10:00 am, UofM Bookstore Check in at registration for your Parent &amp; Family Weekend t-shirt, materials and more! Coffee with the Colleges 8:00 am-9:00 am Join the dean, faculty and staff members of your student's college for coffee and a chat. College of Arts &amp; Sciences, Main Entrance, Scates Hall College Communication &amp; Fine Arts, Art &amp; Communication Building, Lobby College of Education &amp; School of Health Studies, Ball Hall, Rooms 207 &amp; 209 Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics, Room 260 Herff College of Engineering, Engineering Administration Atrium Loewnberg School of Nursing, Main Entrance/Atrium, Community Health Building Kemmons Wilson School for Hospitality &amp; Resort Management, Holiday Inn University College, 218 Brister Hall Complete to Compete Breakfast sponsored by Commencement Office 9:00 am-10:30 am, University Center River Room (300) Join us for breakfast in the University Center before heading out for the day and learn how you can help your student graduate in 4 years. Parent &amp; Family Council Meeting 9:30 am-10:30 am, University Center Fountain View Board Room (350) Members of the Parent &amp; Family Council will have their fall meeting. Visitors are welcome. Chat with the Vice President for Student Affairs 10:00 am-11:00 am, 359 University Center Have a chance to sit down and chat with Dr. Rosie Phillips Bingham, Vice President for Student Affairs. This is a great opportunity to ask questions, meet staff members, and mingle with other parents and families. Memphis Bus Tour 10:45 am-11:45 am &amp; 12:00 pm-1:15 pm Hop on board for a tour around Memphis to many iconic sights. See our beautiful city and all it has to offer you and your student! A photo stop will be made at the I Love Memphis mural. The bus will depart from the drive between the Field House and the Zach Curlin Parking Garage. Men's Soccer vs. Tulsa 1:00 pm, Mike Rose Soccer Complex, 9000 E Shelby Dr, Memphis, TN 38125 Come cheer on the men's soccer team as the take on the Tulsa Golden Hurricanes at the Mike Rose Soccer Complex! Free Admission! Go Tigers Go! Blue Line to Liberty Bowl 3:00-6:00 pm, Central Parking Lot, West Side The Blue Line will take Parent and Family Weekend participants to and from campus to the Liberty Bowl. The shuttle service will begin 3 hours before kickoff to the Liberty Bowl. It will pickup at halftime and begin again after the game with the last drop off concluding 1 hour after the completion of the game. Tiger Walk 3:30 pm, Tiger Lane, Liberty Bowl Help welcome the Tiger Football team and the Mighty Sound of the South Marching Band as they enter the Liberty Bowl. Tailgate Party on Tiger Lane 4:00 pm, Tiger Lane, Liberty Bowl Join us for food and drinks before the football game and take in Tiger Lane. Tailgate tickets will be provided as part of Go Blue Parent &amp; Family Weekend package and will be in the registration materials. Memphis Football vs. Tulane University 6:00 pm, Liberty Bowl Cheer on the Tigers at the Liberty Bowl as they take on the Green Wave of Tulane University! Football tickets will be provided as part of Go Blue Parent &amp; Family Weekend package and will be in the registration materials. Sunday, November 1, 2015 Brunch Like a Tiger sponsored by Pepsi 10:30 am-12:00 pm Tiger Den, Jones Hall Meet your student and brunch like a Tiger in the Tiger Den! Pick from a variety of options in the All-You-Care-to-Eat dining location. Parent &amp; Family Services staff will be on hand if you have any questions. Lambuth Family Weekend Picnic 1:00-3:00 pm, Quad, Lambuth Campus Come enjoy our beautiful Lambuth campus with BBQ, music, pumpkin painting and inflatables for students and their families. The Lambuth Campus 5K sponsored by Campus Recreation will begin at 3:00 pm. Women's Volleyball vs. Temple 1:00 pm, Elma Roane Field House Come cheer on the Volleyball team as the take on the Temple University Owls at Elma Roane Field House on campus! Free Admission! Go Tigers Go! 9th Annual True Blue 5K 2:00 pm, Student Plaza Are you True Blue? The University of Memphis Alumni Association Young Alumni Committee encourages all runners, walkers, alumni, students, and friends to join us for the 9th Annual True Blue 5k. Enjoy a True Blue race course through campus and then a post-race celebration like only the Memphis Tigers can do it. All proceeds from the race will go to support the work of the Young Alumni and its commitment to building a stronger University and a stronger city of Memphis. Click here to register. This event is not included in the Parent &amp; Family Weekend registration package. University of Memphis Percussion Ensemble Concert 7:30 pm, Harris Hall Music from composers around the world. Admission is free. Events Parent &amp; Family Weekend Schedule of Events FAQ Hotels Finals Care Package Parent of the Year Parent Panel Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .