#http://www.memphis.edu/legal/resources/business.php
Business Issues - Legal Counsel - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of Legal Counsel About Contracts Immigration Forms Policies Resources Resources FAQs Other Legal Resources Home Legal Counsel Resources Business Issues Business Issues Custodian of Records: What is a custodian of records? Signature Authority: Do I have the authority to sign a contract on behalf of the University? Notary: What is a notary and where can I go to get a document notarized? Liability Insurance: Does the University have liability insurance and what does it cover? Usage of University's Name and Logo: Who can give me permission to use The University of Memphis name and logo? Custodian of Records: What is a custodian of records? A custodian of records is a person or institution that has charge or custody of documents, papers, property or other valuables. Back to top Signature Authority: Do I have the authority to sign a contract on behalf of the University? All University of Memphis contracts should be reviewed by the Purchasing Department, the Office of Legal Counsel or Business Services for compliance with policy and to obtain signature by the appropriate party. A Contract/Agreement Routing Form, which is available on the website of the Office of Legal Counsel, must be completed and submitted with the proposed agreement. If you sign an agreement on behalf of the University, and do not have the authority to do so, you may be personally liable. Very few people on campus have the authority to sign on behalf of the University, so ASK FIRST! If you have any questions, please contact the Office of Legal Counsel. Back to top Notary: What is a notary and where can I go to get a document notarized? A notary public is someone authorized by the State of Tennessee to verify the authenticity of a signature. If you need to have a document notarized, be sure to wait to sign the document until the notary can actually witness you signing the document. There are several notaries on campus located in the Human Resource Department. Contact them at (901) 678-2601 during normal business hours. There are also two notaries in the Office of Legal Counsel, who can be contacted at (901) 678-2155. Back to top Liability Insurance: Does the University have liability insurance and what does it cover? The State of Tennessee is self-insured in the areas of general liability, automobile liability, professional malpractice, and workers compensation. By statute, the limits of liability for general liability, professional malpractice and automobile liability are $300,000 per person and $1,000,000 per occurrence. The limits of liability under workers’ compensation are set forth in Tennessee Code Annotated Section 50-6-101 et. seq. Back to top Usage of University's Name and Logo: Who can give me permission to use The University of Memphis name and logo? The University's Office of Marketing and Communications is charged with reviewing and approving requests to use The University of Memphis' name and certain logos, and for licensing the name and certain trademarks. For more information call 678-2943. For information on using the University's Athletic logos, please contact 678-2337. Back to top Resources FAQs Other Legal Resources Contact Us For more information about the Office of Legal Counsel and the services provided What To Do If... Common questions regarding legal matters Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .