#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/ccfa/dance.php
DANC - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions DANC DANC (DANC) DANCE Department of Theatre and Dance Holly C. Lau, M.F.A., Chair Room 143D, Theatre and Communication Building In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: DANC 4000-4029. Special Topics in Dance. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online course listings. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit when topic varies. DANC 1151 - Introduction to Dance (3) Comprehensive study of dance as an expressive art form, a symbolic language, and an integral aspect of world cultures; emphasis on developing both aesthetic response and critical skills through an analysis of major dance forms, styles, and genres. [G] DANC 1821 - Contemporary Dance I (2) Introduction to modern dance techniques; emphasis on exploration of fundamentals of dance. For student with little or no previous experience in modern dance. May be repeated for a maximum of 4 hours credit with permission of instructor. DANC 1825 - Ballet I (2) Introduction to classical ballet technique; emphasis on barre and center floor work. For student with little or no previous experience in ballet. May be repeated for a maximum of 4 semester hours credit with permission of instructor. DANC 1827 - Jazz Dance I (2) Contemporary jazz dance techniques; emphasis on fundamentals of idiom. For student with little or no previous experience in jazz dance. May be repeated for a maximum of 4 hours credit with permission of instructor. DANC 1831 - Tap Dance I (2) Introduction to basics of rhythm tap, including technique, traditional movement vocabulary, rhythmic sensibility, history and development of individual style. May be repeated for a maximum of 4 hours credit. DANC 2101 - Dance Improvisation (3) Elements of space, time and force; their interrelationships and their specific applications to movement sequences; experiences in spontaneous development of dance phrases. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. (Offered alternate years). DANC 2821 - Contemporary Dance II (2) Intermediate modern dance techniques. May be repeated for a maximum of 15 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: DANC 1821, or permission of instructor. DANC 2825 - Ballet II (2) Intermediate ballet techniques. May be repeated for a maximum of 14 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. DANC 2827 - Jazz Dance II (2) Intermediate jazz dance techniques. May be repeated for a maximum of 14 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. DANC 3101 - History of Dance (3) Basic features of and uses for dance and expressive movement from early cultures to present. (Offered alternate years). (W) DANC 3201 - Dance Movement Analysis (3) Theory and methods of analyzing and describing dance movement. Varied semester topics: dance notation, Laban movement analysis, Bartenieff fundamentals, rhythmic analysis, kinetic awareness and body alignment techniques. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. (Offered alternate years). DANC 3825 - Ballet III (2) Advanced ballet technique. May br repeated for a maximum of 14 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. DANC 3826 - Musical Theatre Dance I (2) Study of musical theatre dance performance styles through preparation and performance of selection from standard repertory; development of technical mastery of musical theatre dance vocabulary, character driven dance performance. May be repeated for a maximum of 4 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. DANC 3827 - Musical Theatre Dance II (2) Advanced study of music theatre dance performance styles through preparation and performance of selections from standard repertory; development of technical mastery of musical theatre dance vocabulary and character driven dance performance. May be repeated for a maximum of 4 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. DANC 3829 - Adv Dance Techniques (3) Intensive development and refinement of dance technique. Focus on artistic concerns appropriate to advanced level. Repeatable for a maximum of 15 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. DANC 4101 - Dance Repertory (3) Exploration of stylistic, technical, and expressive elements in rehearsal and performance; notated works, faculty and guest artist choreography. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. DANC 4201 - Dance Composition (3) Investigation of movement sources and development of elements of choreographic craft. Emphasis on solo and duet work. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. (Offered alternate years). DANC 4202 - Adv Dance Composition (3) Continued investigation of movement sources and choreographic craft from concept development through rehearsal and performance; emphasis on group forms and working with music. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: DANC 4201, or permission of instructor. DANC 4301 - Directed Studies Dance (1-3) Individual study, research or practicum. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. DANC 4402 - Dance Ed/Diverse Settng (3) Theory, methods and materials for teaching modern and creative dance in schools, dance studios, arts programs, and community settings; current research in aesthetic education and curriculum development. DANC 4404 - Dance Teaching Methods (3) Analysis of principles, methods, philosophy, materials, practice of teaching dance in educational settings; emphasis on preparing student to teach dance in public schools. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .