#http://www.memphis.edu/csd/resources/faq3.php
FAQs - Class/Clinic - School of Communication Sciences and Disorders - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Student Organizations Resources News Resources Clinical Practicum Facilities Speech and Hearing Center Textbooks CSD Library Location and Housing Financial Assistance Information for New Students Introduction FAQs - Pre-Orientation FAQs - Financial FAQs - Class/Clinic FAQs - First Week Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Resources FAQs - Class/Clinic FAQs - Class and Clinic Questions Which classes will I take? The typical sequence of classes for SLP students who have an undergraduate degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders (CSD) can be found here ; SLP students without a background (WOB) in CSD will take the courses listed here . AuD students can find their class sequence here . You will attend classes year round to include the full summer session and some courses will be evening classes to accommodate the clinic schedule. Because our School is small and there are rarely students from main campus taking our classes, there should never be any fear that a student won't be able to register for a course. Where do I buy textbooks? Textbooks may be ordered online. A list of textbooks required for courses can be found here . Some professors will email you before the start of the semester (at your UofM account) with a list of required books for their courses. When will I start clinic? Speech-language pathology students without a background in Communication Disorders, will do observations in the clinic their first semester. Students coming to the program with a background in the field will begin clinic during their first semester. Certain clinical placements (e.g., hospitals) require prerequisite coursework and therefore will come later in a student's program. Audiology students will begin clinic during their second semester, although they are required to complete 25 hours of observation in the Memphis Speech and Hearing Center during their first semester. Clinic begins the first day of class. What can I expect for my first clinical assignment? SLP students with a background in communication disorders will be assigned approximately 6 hours of client contact a week for the first semester. The clinical assignments are typically with children who have speech and language disorders or adults who are in a Standard English training program. Students meet with their supervisors weekly to plan and discuss the therapy and progress of the clients. No prior experience in the clinic is necessary. Clinical faculty are prepared to work with students who have not had previous clinical experience. Is there a dress code? For class there is no dress code. For clinic, however, students are to dress business casual. Women may wear slacks, skirts, dresses, and blouses need to be of adequate length and modest neckline, no flip flops or spiked heels. Men are to wear slacks, dress shirt, shoes and socks. Some off-site facilities may require specific attire or have specific restrictions. How do I show proof of my observation or clinical clock hours? If you have clinic observation and/or clock hours from your undergrad program, please bring a signed copy of your hours to the orientation meeting and give them to the appropriate clinic director (SLP – Marilyn Wark; AuD – Dr. Jennifer Taylor). The supervisor who supervised these hours must provide the following: date, signature, ASHA account number, and area of certification. If you are entering the program without a background in communication disorders and have observed a certified professional, you may submit a letter on the facility's letterhead with the date and number of hours observed and the professional's signature and ASHA certification number. Resources Clinical Practicum Facilities Speech and Hearing Center Textbooks CSD Library Location and Housing Financial Assistance Information for New Students Introduction FAQs - Pre-Orientation FAQs - Financial FAQs - Class/Clinic FAQs - First Week Apply Now Want to pursue a degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders? Find out how to apply. Support the School Help support the School with the funding of various initiatives. Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Learn about our in-house clinical training facility. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .