#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11437
Coordinator of Alumni Affairs Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Coordinator of Alumni Affairs Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE752 Advertised Title Coordinator of Alumni Affairs Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 012699 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department Alumni and Constituent Relations Minimum Position Qualifications Bachelor’s degree in a relevant area and three years of appropriate experience. Requires valid driver’s license. Special Conditions This is a readvertisement. The department is especially interested in candidates with any event planning, athletic operations, and marketing experience. This position does require a valid driver’s license. Work Schedule Monday – Friday 8:30am – 5:00pm Substantial weekends and evenings hours required. Some travel may be required. Posting Date 11/05/2015 Closing Date 11/18/2015 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range up to $45,000 per year Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to sit; use hands to handle, or feel; and talk or hear. The employee frequently is required to walk. The employee is occasionally required to stand; reach with hands and arms; and stoop, kneel, or crouch. The employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to 10 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision. Additional Working Conditions Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu. Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Leads special events involving specifically assigned Club and Chapter involvement for the Alumni Association both in and out of town. Serves as the primary liaison between University Departments in relation to the assigned Club and Chapters and the Alumni Association. May also assists in the creation of new alumni chapters based on a targeted constituency, geographic location, or identifiable demand. Duties & Responsibilities Organizes and takes lead on events and activities for specifically assigned alumni groups including, but not limited to: receptions, award dinners and ceremonies, pep rallies, parades, on-field and on-court presentations, tailgates, monthly board of directors meetings, etc. Duties & Responsibilities Assists in the creation of alumni communications such as newsletters, flyers, and invitations. Works with the Assistant Director of Marketing and Director of Alumni Relations to create and implement a marketing strategy that will successfully service the targeted constituent base as well as brand the University of Memphis Alumni Association and specific Club or Chapter. Duties & Responsibilities Maintains and expands current programing and assists in the development and implementation of new programing based on the mission of the Alumni Association. Works with the Assistant Director of Programming and Director of Alumni Relations to create and execute programming that will successfully engage and connect the targeted constituent base to the University of Memphis, Alumni Association, and specific Club or Chapter experience. Duties & Responsibilities Collaborates with alumni leaders regarding issues facing constituent groups or University of Memphis Alumni Club and Chapters. The coordinator researches issues and recommends possible solutions. Duties & Responsibilities Monitors and evaluates programs; proposes improvements as needed. Evaluates and maintains Club and Chapter event standards. Duties & Responsibilities Provides administrative and managerial support to alumni groups. Manages alumni leaders and supervises volunteers, student workers, and graduate assistants. The liaison for Clubs and Chapters to connect and interact with the Alumni Association. Acts as a principal resource for volunteers to get involved with the University of Memphis and Alumni Association and is a reference for all information pertaining to the University. Duties & Responsibilities Responsible for the solicitation of memberships to the University of Memphis Alumni Association, a membership driven, dues-paying organization, as a means to help maintain the overall membership goals set forth by the Association. Maintains Club and Chapter membership information, with the primary focus that all Club and Chapter Board Members maintain an active, paid membership. Responsible for outreach and communication to new members who fall into their assigned affinity and constituent groups. Duties & Responsibilities Responsible for the raising of funds through programming for their assigned Clubs and Chapters operating expenses and Alumni Association projects. Creates and maintains a budget for individual events with an expected goal of generating revenues for the assigned Clubs and Chapters. Works with the Association Financial Officer and Director of Alumni and Constituent Relations to execute financial tracking and profit/loss reports. Duties & Responsibilities Other duties as assigned. Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). * Do you have a valid driver&#x27;s license? YES NO Applicant Documents Required Documents Cover Letter Resume Optional Documents References List Unofficial Transcript