#http://www.memphis.edu/resnet/about/resnetemployment.php
resnetemployment - ResNet - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The University of Memphis - ResNet About Requirements Connections Support About Resources Frequently Asked Questions Games/Devices on ResNet iPrinters: Printing on Campus Information Technology Services P2P and File Sharing ResNet Employment Home ResNet About resnetemployment Ever thought about being a ResNet Student Tech? Job Description- $8/hour The University of Memphis ResNet hires student support personnel as ResTechs. As a ResTech you would assist students in getting their computers and any electronic devices connected to the University of Memphis Residential Computing network. Also part of your duties is evaluation of their systems for performance and virus cleaning. Residence Life wants workers who are motivated and eager to learn. There will be on-the-job training as well as support structure to turn to for assistance. Basic Requirements: Must have a good customer service attitude and communication skills. Must be willing and able to learn new technical concepts and tasks. Must interact well with other people; need to be able to interact and work cooperatively with other students and staff members. Must be familiar with all Windows operating systems, basic networking setups and Internet. Mac systems a plus. Must show individual initiative and responsibility. Should be able to work a minimum of 10 hours per week. Pay rate is $8.00 an hour. Duties and Responsibilities : Provide assistance to students living in ResNet housing with connecting and configuring their personal computers and electronic devices to the ResNet. This service is provided via telephone assist and in person at the ResNet Technical Support Center locations in Richardson Towers South room 101. Become familiar with campus computing resources, learning and using campus academic resources available electronically. Maintain records of all calls for assistance made by students and record all actions taken to resolve issues with the HelpDesk system. Act as auxiliary support to the staff: Residence Life, Dining Services, Child Development Center and other designated staff support offices, assisting the LSP staff with any software and hardware maintenance needs. Understand the policies surrounding the ResNet, and educate the students about the policies. Provide support during the Move-in weekend at the beginning of each semester. Work on any special projects as assigned by staff. Attend any training sessions to keep you current on changes to policies and troubleshooting techniques. Some training time would be necessary prior to the Move-in for each semester. Click Here to fill out an Online Application. No walk in or emailed applications accepted. No phones calls. About Resources Frequently Asked Questions Games/Devices on ResNet iPrinters: Printing on Campus Information Technology Services P2P and File Sharing ResNet Employment ResNet Resources Get connected. Stay connected. ResNet Team Meet the team that is here to support you Campus Living Learn more about living on campus! Campus Dining Learn about on campus dining Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .