#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/people/bios/shaun-gallagher.php
Shaun Gallagher - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact People Core Faculty Visiting Scholars Instructors Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Home Philosophy People Shaun Gallagher Shaun Gallagher Lillian and Morrie Moss Professor of Philosophy Phone 901.678.2535 Email s.gallagher@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.4365 Office 331 Clement Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours Monday 3-5pm and by appointment Website CV About Dr. Gallagher Shaun Gallagher is the Lillian and Morrie Moss Professor of Excellence. His areas of research include phenomenology and the cognitive sciences, especially topics related to embodiment, self, agency and intersubjectivity, hermeneutics, and the philosophy of time. Dr. Gallagher has a secondary research appointment at the University of Wollongong, Australia, and is Honorary Professor of Philosophy at both the University of Copenhagen and Durham University (UK), and Honorary Professor of Health Sciences at the University of Tromsø, Norway. He has held visiting positions at the Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge University; the Center for Subjectivity Research, University of Copenhagen; the Centre de Recherche en Epistémelogie Appliquée (CREA), Paris; the Ecole Normale Supériure, Lyon; and at the Humboldt University in Berlin. In Spring 2016 he will be Senior Research Fellow at Keble College, University of Oxford. Professor Gallagher holds the Anneliese Maier Research Award [Anneliese Maier-Forschungspreis] (2012-17), a recently established 5-year Humboldt Fellowship. Currently he's a sponsor of two post-doctoral research grants at the University of Memphis: the Marie Curie International Outgoing Fellowship, held by Dylan Trigg (2014-2016), and the Humboldt Feodor Lynen Research Postdoctoral Fellowship, held by Anika Fiebich (2015). He was recently principle investigator on a European Commission Marie Curie Actions Grant: TESIS: Towards an Embodied Science of Intersubjectivity(2011-15), and a Templeton Foundation grant (2011-2013) which funded an empirical and phenomenological study of astronauts' experiences during space flight [ link ]. He's also been co-PI on the NSF grant: Metaphor-Based Learning of Physics Concepts Through Whole-Body Interaction in a Mixed Reality (2011-14), and the Australian Research Council (ARC) grant: Embodied Virtues and Expertise (2010-13). Gallagher is a founding editor and a co-editor-in-chief of the journal Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences . Recent Publications Gallagher, S. 2014. The cruel and unusual phenomenology of solitary confinement . Frontiers in Psychology. Gallagher, S. and González, J. (2014). Time, altered states of consciousness, and science . Cosmology 18: 246-262.Invited paper for Special issue ed. by Menas Kafatos and Deepak Chopra. Gallagher, S. (2014). In your face: Transcendence in embodied interaction . Frontiers in Human Neuroscience 8:495. Gallagher, S. and Zahavi, D. 2014. Primal impression and enactive perception. In Dan Lloyd and Valtteri Arstila (eds.) Subjective Time: the philosophy, psychology, and neuroscience of temporality (83-99). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. Gallagher, S., Reinerman, L. Sollins, B. and Janz, B. 2014. Using a simulated environment to investigate experiences reported during space travel . Theoretical Issues in Ergonomic Sciences 15 (4): 376-394. Gallagher, S. 2014. Phenomenology and embodied cognition. In L. Shapiro (ed.), Routledge Handbook of Embodied Cognition (9-18). London: Routledge. Gallagher, S. and Varga, S. 2014. Social constraints on the direct perception of emotions and intentions . Topoi 33 (1): 185-199. Röhricht, F., Gallagher, S., Geuter, U. &amp; Hutto, D. (2014). Embodied cognition and body psychotherapy: the construction of new therapeutic environments. Sensoria: A Journal of Mind, Brain &amp; Culture 56: 11-20 Gallagher, S. (2013). Phronesis and psychopathy: The moral frame problem. Philosophy, Psychology and Psychiatry 20(4), 345-348 Gallagher, S. 2013. A pattern theory of self. Frontiers in Human Neuroscience 7 (443): 1-7. Gallagher, S. 2013. The socially extended mind . Cognitive Systems Research. 25-26: 4-12. Gallagher, S. 2013. You and I, robot. AI and Society 28 (4): 455-460 Gallagher, S. 2013. Intersubjectivity and psychopathology. In Bill Fulford, Martin Davies, George Graham, John Sadler and Giovanni Stanghellini (eds.), Oxford Handbook of Philosophy of Psychiatry (258-274). Oxford: Oxford University Press. Gallagher, S. 2013. What can phenomenology tell us about social cognition? In K. Mertens and I. Guenzler (eds.), Wahrnehmen, Fühlen, Handeln. Phänomenologie im Wettstreit der Methoden. (Perceiving, Feeling, Acting. Phenomenology and the Competition of Methods) (497-514). Munich: Mentis Verlag. Gallagher, S. 2013. Ambiguity in the sense of agency. In A. Clark, J. Kiverstein and T. Vierkant (eds.), Decomposing the Will (118-135) Oxford: Oxford University Press. People Core Faculty Visiting Scholars Instructors Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .