#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/events/
Events - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Events Current Events Onstine Lecture Ancient Egypt Family Day Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Events the egyptian gallery is closed . We will reopen spring 2016. IEAA Events - Fall 2015 10th Annual Professor William J. Murnane Memorial Lecture - November 17, 2015 13th Annual Legacy of Egypt Lecture - Spring 2016 The Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology, as part of its mandate as a Tennessee Center of Excellence, presents programs and educational events for the public . The IEAA brings world-renowned Egyptologists to the Mid-South for lectures and symposia. In addition, educational events are offered to schoolchildren and their families. Occasionally, the Institute also sponsors educational tours to Egypt. The Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology provides trained graduate student docents for groups wishing a guided tour of the ancient Egyptian and African ethnographic exhibitions in the Art Museum of the University of Memphis. In addition, the Art Museum and the IEAA are sometimes able to provide guided tours of the Contemporary exhibitions at the Art Museum. To schedule a tour , contact the Art Museum at 901.678.2224. Note: All groups are required to contact the Art Museum in advance and are strongly encouraged to schedule a docent tour guide. Events for Fall 2015 Tenth Annual William J. Murnane Memorial Lecture "Egyptology in the Nazi Era: Ideology and Careers in a Humanistic Discipline" A Public Lecture by Dr. Thomas Schneider Tuesday, November 17, 2015 Lecture: 7:00 p.m. Reception: 6:15 p.m. Location: Fountain View Suite, University Center (room 350) University of Memphis Thomas Schneider, PhD , is professor of Egyptology and Near Eastern Studies in the Department of Classical, Near Eastern, and Religious Studies at the University of British Columbia (Vancouver, Canada). He is an internationally-recognized scholar who has published extensively on Egyptian interconnections with the Levant and the Near East, and ancient Egyptian history and chronology. Tuesday's lecture will highlight his current research on the history of Egyptology in Nazi Germany, providing an overview of Egyptologists, both persecuted emigrants as well as scholars who actively aligned themselves with the regime, who worked in Germany through the end of the Second World War. Professor Schneider earned his Master's degree and Doctorate in Egyptology at the University of Basel, Switzerland. He has held professorships and research positions at the University of Vienna, University of Heidelberg, New York University, the University of California, Berkeley, the University of Basel, and the University of Wales, Swansea, where he also served as Chair in Egyptology. This free public event will take place on the campus of the University of Memphis. Pay parking ($2/hr.) is available in the adjacent Zach Curlin Garage. Thirteenth Annual Legacy of Egypt Lecture "The African-American Reception of Ancient Egypt, 1939-1987" A Public Lecture by Dr. Steve Vinson Date &amp; Time: Spring 2016 Lecture: TBD Reception: TBD Location: TBD University of Memphis Steven Vinson, PhD , is associate professor of Near Eastern Languages and Cultures at the University of Indiana, Bloomington. This free public event will take place on the campus of the University of Memphis. Family Day at the Egyptian Institute Coming in Spring 2016 Treat the family to fun-filled activities inspired by Ancient Egypt at the Art Museum of the University of Memphis. Join us in spring 2016. Events Current Events Onstine Lecture Ancient Egypt Family Day Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/11/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .