#http://www.memphis.edu/csd/news/hillardmentoring.php
Sallie Starr Hillard Mentoring Award - School of Communication Sciences and Disorders - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Student Organizations Resources News News School Awards Outstanding Student Outstanding Alumni Sallie Hillard Mentoring Malcolm Fraser Service Louise Ward Fellowship Marion G. Evans Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders News and Events Sallie Starr Hillard Mentoring Award Sallie Starr Hillard Mentoring Award Sallie Starr Hillard came to the Memphis Speech and Hearing Center as a clinical supervisor in 1971 following her graduation from Vanderbilt. During her twenty-two years she created innovative clinic programs for clients, taught classes, and procured funding for services and student support. Specifically she created a new approach for speech and language acquisition for the children and helped organize and coordinate the preschool language program which currently exists at the Memphis Speech and Hearing Center-East location. Sallie also coordinated the adult fluency program. The following is a colleague's observation of her skills when working with clients who stutter: Watching her in therapy you were reminded why you chose this field. Sallie's view of the person we were working with was always original. She had a consistent and passionate belief in that person's potential. She enabled clients to do things they never imagined possible. Her clients gave speeches at national conventions, passed oral national medical board examinations, and entered beauty pageants. With her encouragement, one of her clients started his own radio show. After one of her clients gave a presentation at our national convention two years ago she turned to us and said that it was the highlight of her clinical career. With others at the University, she wrote and received several national grants for recruiting and supporting the education of African-American students in this field. Additionally she received funding for and developed a basic communication skills program for refugees from Ethiopia, Laos, and Viet Nam. Sallie taught courses in communicative interaction and conducted clinical research. She made many presentations both regionally and nationally. Sallie's contributions to the program and the field are numerous, but the most important gift was her ability to mentor people. Sallie mentored by giving of herself, her time, her knowledge, her insight, and her love. Sallie believed in her students and gave them the desire to learn new ways of thinking about themselves. She helped them to see the possibilities in their clients. Sallie's ability to truly listen to students, colleagues and friends allowed each person seeking her counsel to feel that she was there solely for them. There were other parts of Sallie's world. She had a glorious sense of humor. No one made us laugh any more than Sallie, many times, with stories about herself. And the laughter is still there as we retell all those wonderful stories from and about her. Sallie loved the garden she and Richard built together in their back yard. And every week she brought flowers to us from that garden and placed them in the lobby of the Center. Sallie adopted a manatee while on a trip to Florida. It was the perfect expression of Sallie's response to life in general and people in particular. That's what Sallie did. She responded to the unique...unique creatures and uncommon people. She responded to things that others might not notice or love. From a small section of land in her neighborhood that no one noticed or cared about, to a huge, uniquely formed, goofy looking sea mammal who needed to be adopted, to the student in trouble who would be lost if she didn't do something. And finally, Sallie was the most unassuming person you could meet. She could laugh at herself. She was open and shining and wonderful. As you came to know her you realized that Sallie had a remarkable spiritual quality. She had a sense of grace. And she gave that grace to those around her. Sallie died on September 30, 1993. In her memory her friends created The Sallie Starr Hillard Mentoring Award to recognize individuals who have given of themselves for others in a similar manner. Individuals who have been privileged to have had a mentor are encouraged to nominate him/her for this annual award. Recipients of the Sallie Starr Hillard Mentoring Award 2015: Caroline Royal-Evans, M.A. 2014: Carlin Hageman 2009: Marion Hammett, M.A. 2007: Nancy Helm-Estabrooks, Sc.D. 2006: Marilyn Dunham Wark, M.A. 2003: Marilyn Newhoff, Ph.D. 2001: Joel C. Kahane, Ph.D. 2000: John C. Rosenbek, Ph.D. 1999: John V. Irwin, Ph.D. 1998: Brenda Cole Antwine, M.A. 1997: Mary Pannbacker, Ph.D. 1996: Carol Rocconi, M.A. 1995: Louise Ward, M.A. &amp; Elizabeth Webster, Ph.D. News School Awards Outstanding Student Outstanding Alumni Sallie Hillard Mentoring Malcolm Fraser Service Louise Ward Fellowship Marion G. Evans Apply Now Want to pursue a degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders? Find out how to apply. Support the School Help support the School with the funding of various initiatives. Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Learn about our in-house clinical training facility. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .