#http://www.memphis.edu/memphistem/opportunities.php
Opportunities - MemphisSTEM - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. MemphiSTEM Staff Research Opportunities Resources Facts Home MemphisSTEM Opportunities Check here for jobs, scholarships, events and more cool info. STEM TRIO is still enrolling students for support for this academic year. Click here to learn more. Math Tutors for K-12 Needed - Paid Position The West TN STEM Hub is currently seeking 2-3 undergraduate STEM majors to serve as math tutors for local K-12 students. Tutors selected for this program will be assigned to a local elementary, middle, or high school and will serve as a math tutor up to 15 hours per week (this is flexible based upon schedule). You must have submitted the FAFSA and be eligible for Federal Work Study in order to be selected for one of these tutoring positions. Who is Eligible? Students that completed the FAFSA and are eligible for Federal Work Study (FWS). How to apply? Email Dr. Stephanie Ivey ( ssalyers@memphis.edu ) if you are interested in being considered for a West TN STEM Hub K-12 math tutor position. For more information about the West TN STEM Hub, click here ! Civil Engineer Job Position MidSouth Utility Consultants, LLC provides a dynamic work environment with the opportunity and responsibility to impact hundreds of thousands of people every day through comprehensive planning, design, testing, and construction contract administration services to rural electric cooperatives, municipal electric power systems, and large industries who have their own high voltage facilities. Candidates must be completing/have completed a 4-year civil engineering program by May 2015 with the understanding that rewards are the result of purposeful, hard work. Here you can find more information about this position. SSP Opportunities The Student Success Programs (SSP) have various positions which will be responsible for coordinating different projects. The kinds of things you will be exposed to include job shadowing, research and internship opportunities, speaker series, faculty/business mentors, industry visits, themed workshops, summer bridge activities, and more. You can find information about this program through the SSP Brochure and Position Description . 2nd Semester Internship Program i-SERV is a nonprofit (501c3) tutoring program that works alongside intervention teachers in math lab classes at White Station Middle School. We assist teachers by working with students, who have tested below proficient on the TCAP, in small group stations. Program Goals: to boost our students' confidence in math to work to develop relationships with our students to assist teachers in preparing station activities to raise our students' test scores to provide one day per week, small group skill stations Internship time requirements: Every Wednesday: mid-January to early May, 7:15 am to 2:15 pm 1-2 group planning session each week according to intern's schedules Additional hours can be earned through lunch time tutoring sessions that are one on one with students when needed Internship Program Benefits: work in a Title I school alongside some of the best teachers in Memphis learn valuable training in classroom management participate in the development of a nonprofit program work in small group settings with students, allowing you to make a personal impact Apply to the Internship Program: Contact Lora Lyons for more information at loralyons@i-serv.org or 901.490.3397. Visit i-SERV.org for more information on our program 2015-2016 JLM Voluntarism Scholarship Award The Junior League of Memphis has announced they are seeking qualified applicants to compete for their first annual Scholarship Awards for the 2015-2016 academic year. Up to $10,000 in scholarships will be awarded to deserving female students who are striving to purse a degree at a local 4-year college. Applicants must exhibit leadership qualities and have a strong volunteer history. Visit the link here to read more information from the Junior League about procedures, eligibility requirements, and the application for this scholarship. Engineering Career Webinars Anthony Fasano is a very dynamic and motivational presenter and touches upon a lot of good ideas for developing one's engineering career. If you want to know more how to engineer your success and build a winning resume click here! Information Sessions on USDA Career Several sessions will be offered in March and April (For dates, click or copy registration link ). Sessions will be held: 1:30 pm to 3:30 pm (EST) Please register here ! All informational sessions will be recorded and captioned. Topics covered will be: An overview of USDA, An introduction to USDA Careers Basic qualifications and application process by program type Available opportunities in our mission areas Who should attend? Recent graduates and students who are U.S. citizens or U.S. residents Faculty and career services staff. Requirements to participate in the webinar: Internet accessibility Access to a computer with speakers Open to All Majors: Agribusiness and Industry(Agricultural Business, Economics, Agricultural Management, International Trade and Economics, Finance); IT/Computer &amp; Science (Agronomy, Animal Science, Food Science/Public Health, Forestry, Mathematics, Statistics, Biologic, Environment, Nutrition, Plant Pathology, Soil Science and Conservation, Veterinary, Wild Life Biology); and Management (Accounting, Procurement, Human Resources, Communications, Public Affairs). Also you can find more information here ! Online registration procedures: Complete registration. Be sure to choose the date you would like to register for the webinar. After successfully completing your registration, you will be prompted to the confirmation page. Print and keep a copy of the confirmation page for your records. The page will have the link to log in into the webinar session. Follow the instructions provided to you in the confirmation page when you log in into the webinar. Sponsored by: Students Employment Opportunities Diversity, Recruitment, and Work/Life Division Office of Human Resources Management Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration Mission Areas Student Employment Programs and Human Resources Divisions STEM Clubs A listing of STEM clubs and contact information Fresh Connections Join learning communities like Entry to Engineering Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .