#http://www.memphis.edu/umparents/events/pfwfaq.php
Parent &amp; Family Weekend FAQs - Parent &amp; Family Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parent &amp; Family Services About Events Communication Resources Get Involved Give Back Visit UofM Events Parent &amp; Family Weekend Schedule of Events FAQ Hotels Finals Care Package Parent of the Year Parent Panel Home Parent &amp; Family Services Events Parent &amp; Family Weekend FAQs 2015 Parent &amp; Family Weekend FAQs: Frequently Asked Questions General and Registration When is Parent &amp; Family Weekend 2015? Parent &amp; Family Weekend 2015 is Friday, October 30 through Sunday, November 1, in conjunction with the Memphis vs. Tulane University football game. Parent &amp; Family Weekend is a wonderful time to visit with your student, see their favorite places and get to know the University even more. You will also have the opportunity to meet other parents and families, University faculty and staff and have your questions answered. Events include President' Welcome Reception, Tailgate on Tiger Lane, Scavenger Hunt, Blue Lantern Tour, Tours of Buildings, Complete to Compete Breakfast, and much more. Click here for the full schedule of events. Do I need to attend all of the events on the schedule? No, please feel free to pick and choose the events that you want to attend with or without your student. This weekend is yours to spend with your student and enjoy the University of Memphis. How do I register, and what is included with my registration package? Registration opened on Tuesday, May 19 and will close on Friday, October 18 at 10:00 pm CST. Registration is available on the Parent &amp; Family Weekend website . Each family member who wants to participate in Parent &amp; Family Weekend MUST register. The registration fee allows participation in all of the activities on the schedule of events, unless otherwise noted. There are two registration packages available and participants can choose the one best for them. Go Blue Package ($45 per person) includes registration and entrance to all Parent &amp; Family Weekend Events, 1 Tailgate ticket, 1 Football Ticket in Parent &amp; Family Weekend section, 1 t-shirt (choice of short or long sleeve), and Parent &amp; Family Weekend materials. The package also includes entrance for your UofM student to Parent &amp; Family Weekend events, tailgate ticket and football ticket in the Parent &amp; Family Weekend section at the Liberty Bowl. A t-shirt for your student is not included. T-shirts can be purchased separately for your student. Go Gray Package ($40 per person) includes registration and entrance to all Parent &amp; Family Weekend Events, Parent &amp; Family Weekend T-shirt (choice of short or long sleeve), and Parent &amp; Family Weekend materials. This package does not include a tailgate or football ticket. The package also includes entrance for your UofM student to Parent &amp; Family Weekend events. A tailgate or football ticket is not included for your student. A t-shirt for your student is not included. T-shirts can be purchased separately for your student. What events can my student attend? Do I need to buy a package for my student? Students are included with the registration packages and are encouraged to attend. The Go Blue package includes a football and tailgate ticket for your student. Can I bring my younger children and siblings? Family Weekend is for the entire family and not just parents. Many families will bring siblings of all ages, grandparents, aunts, uncles... everyone! Please keep in mind that all family members, regardless of age, must be registered in order to participate in the scheduled events. A separate package for those 12 and under is available. It includes entrance to all Parent &amp; Family Weekend events, 1 tailgate ticket, and 1 football ticket in the Parent &amp; Family Weekend section at the Liberty Bowl. Youth 13 and older will need to register under the Go Blue or Go Gray Package. Youth must attend with a parent, family member or guardian. We have another guest who would like to attend just one event, so can I buy a separate ticket for them to attend that one event? No. All of our events are exclusive to the Parent &amp; Family Weekend registration packages and we do not sell tickets to individual events. Are refunds available? Refunds are available if requested 30 days in advance of the event. Refunds must be requested via email to parents@memphis.edu by 4:30 pm on Tuesday, September 29, 2015. Those registering after this date will not be eligible for a refund. During the Weekend Can my student pick up my packet for me during check-in? Yes, if you are unable to attend packet pickup for the weekend, your student can pick up your materials. Please make sure your student brings their student ID and a copy of your confirmation email. When should we plan to arrive? Do families stay for the whole weekend? Parents and families are encouraged to arrive on Thursday evening or Friday morning so they can enjoy the many events planned for Friday. Events are scheduled for Friday, Saturday and Sunday, so plan to stay for the entire weekend! What if I arrive after check-in ends at 7:00 pm on Friday? What if I can't come until Saturday? Please encourage your student to pick up your materials during check-in on Friday, October 30 from 10 am to 7 pm at the UofM Bookstore in the Rawls Service Court. If that is not possible, you may check in on Saturday, October 31 from 8:00 am to 10:00 am at the UofM Bookstore (please note this may change due to football game kickoff time). Where do I park on campus? Parking will be available in the Zach Curlin parking garage for the duration of the weekend. What can we do while in Memphis? From Graceland and the allure of Beale St. to the National Civil Rights Museum, Memphis' offerings are as diverse and entertaining as anywhere in the Southeastern United States. Known especially for its special brand of smoky barbecue and musical tradition second to none, the River City's appeal is hard not to find. Learn more about Memphis at . Football Information How do I get my football tickets for Parent &amp; Family Weekend game? Those purchasing the Go Blue package will receive their tickets in their registration materials. How does my student get a ticket for the football game? Students whose family purchased the Go Blue package will have a football ticket next to their family included with the registration materials for them in the Parent &amp; Family Weekend section. Students may also sit in the student section. I want to sit with my student at the football game. What do I need to do? If you purchase the Go Blue package, tickets will be included for you and your student in the Parent &amp; Family Weekend section next to each other. Where can I park for the football game? General parking is available at the Liberty Bowl for $15 cash. The access points are located off Central and Early Maxwell, Southern Avenue and Early Maxwell, and East Parkway South. General parking is first come first served, CASH ONLY. The campus shuttle bus, The Blue Line, will provide service to and from the Liberty Bowl. Feel free to park for free in the Central Ave lot and catch The Blue Line to the game at no cost. Shuttle service to the stadium will begin running 3 hours before kickoff. Pick up after the game will be on Hollywood, with the last drop off concluding 1 hour after the completion of the game. Disability Parking and Liberty Bowl Accessibility Is accessible parking available at the football game? Accessible parking is available in the lot, entered from South Hollywood via Access 4, and is first come first served. All vehicles must have a current state-issued hang tag or license plate. Each vehicle is allowed one parking space. For more information on accessibility and services, please click here . Events Parent &amp; Family Weekend Schedule of Events FAQ Hotels Finals Care Package Parent of the Year Parent Panel Contact Us Got questions, comments, or concerns? We're here to help! Parent &amp; Family E-news Stay in touch electronically by subscribing to our E-News. Parent &amp; Family Handbook Learn about opportunities and services available to students. In the Now: September FAQs What you need to know this month to help you help your student Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .