#http://www.memphis.edu/professional/
Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center - PDC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center Welcome Programs Internships Career Coaching Success Stories Events FCBE Home PDC Welcome The Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center Through the support of entrepreneur and business leader, Avron B. Fogelman, business majors have a Professional Development Center within FCBE. Through this Center, programs are offered to complement the academic coursework that students experience in the classroom and help them successfully make the transition into the business world. It’s the goal of the Center to prepare and place students to retain top talent locally! Click here for a calendar of events for Fall 2015! To register for any of the Complete Professional Program events, access our CPP Online Registration System . If you're a student and would like to learn more about The Complete Professional Program , email professional@memphis.edu or visit room 274. The Complete Professional Program The Complete Professional Program seeks to provide students with innovative workplace development training that helps them "earn their stripes" and become ready to compete effectively in today's demanding job market. Other community partners have also joined Fogelman to help prepare FCBE students for today's workplace. These strategic partners include CB Richard Ellis Memphis, Cummins of the Mid-south, First Tennessee Bank, FedEx Services, FedEx Express, International Paper, Northwestern Mutual, Methodist LeBonheur Healthcare, and Reynolds Bone &amp; Griesbeck. Through these collaborative relationships, professionals join the faculty and staff in the Avron B. Fogelman Professional Development Center to provide professional development training and support for upcoming business graduates. This distinctive approach helps to prepare students holistically for the demands of today's business world. In addition, this programming provides professionally prepared graduates for the Memphis and Shelby County in order to retain top talent in our community. If you're an employer and would like to join other progressive employers in this unique program, please contact the director, Dr. Kathy Tuberville . CONGRATULATIONS SPRING 2015 CPP STUDENTS! A record number of 107 students successfully met the requirements of The Complete Professional Program this academic year. On April 23, 2015 the spring semester students were honored at a recognition event featuring keynote speaker, Mrs. Bathsheba Sams from International Paper. Sams presented a wonderful message how to prepare for the workplace and most importantly, lifelong pointers for personal success. A brief reception followed for networking with key partners including the North American Recruiting Team of International Paper, faculty, and staff. Students are featured below at the event. Each student received a certificate, lapel pin, and personalized business cards to recognize their completion of the program. Spring 2015 Class of CPP Students Community Partners For employers looking to hire professional and polished interns, information on Professional Development, and Suits for Success Student Engagement For students looking to get invovled in Peer Power, The Complete Professional Program, and Student Organizations Student Success Stories Learn more about your peers and their successes with our program! Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Twitter Facebook Event Calendar Support the FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/15/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .