#http://www.memphis.edu/csd/resources/faq4.php
FAQs - First Week - School of Communication Sciences and Disorders - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Student Organizations Resources News Resources Clinical Practicum Facilities Speech and Hearing Center Textbooks CSD Library Location and Housing Financial Assistance Information for New Students Introduction FAQs - Pre-Orientation FAQs - Financial FAQs - Class/Clinic FAQs - First Week Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Resources FAQs - First Week FAQs - First Week Questions Where is the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders (CSD) and the Memphis Speech and Hearing Center (MSHC)? The School and MSHC are NOT located on main UofM campus. They are housed in the Community Health Building (CHB) located at 4055 North Park Loop, Memphis, TN 38152 on the Park Avenue Campus of the University of Memphis. All classes and clinic are at the CHB. When is orientation? What will happen at orientation? Orientation will be held at the Community Health Building. The dates are included in the General Timeline. It's important to remember that these dates fall BEFORE classes start at the university, so you'll want to make sure to get here the week before classes begin. The day will be the time when incoming students meet current students and faculty as well as receive information regarding the program, class and clinic schedules and orientation meeting times. We will begin at 9:30 am in the lobby of the Memphis Speech and Hearing Center and will provide breakfast and lunch. Meetings with clinic supervisors will be scheduled on Thursday and Friday. There is also a New Graduate Student Orientation at the University Center on the main campus. General questions about graduate school will be answered and lunch will be provided. Will there be any social events during orientation? Yes. There will be an informal event each evening of orientation to give you the opportunity to better get to know faculty as well as incoming and current students. One of the evening events will be a party at a faculty member's home. Significant others and children are invited. Smaller events are planned for the other two evenings. These events are not mandatory, but you are encouraged to participate to see that we enjoy having fun as well as working together. Is there parking at CHB? Parking for students is available in one of three lots on the Park Avenue Campus and in close proximity of CHB. All parking is general parking and your UofM hang tag will be required. The small parking lot to the west of CHB is reserved for clients only. How do I get a student ID? During orientation you will be taken to the main campus of the university where you will be issued a (free) student ID. This ID will be used to gain access to CHB after hours, enter the clinic, and the student work rooms and mailroom. Resources Clinical Practicum Facilities Speech and Hearing Center Textbooks CSD Library Location and Housing Financial Assistance Information for New Students Introduction FAQs - Pre-Orientation FAQs - Financial FAQs - Class/Clinic FAQs - First Week Apply Now Want to pursue a degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders? Find out how to apply. Support the School Help support the School with the funding of various initiatives. Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Learn about our in-house clinical training facility. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .