#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11436
Swimming Pool Technician Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Swimming Pool Technician Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE801 Advertised Title Swimming Pool Technician Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 002638 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department PP Crafts Trades Minimum Position Qualifications High School diploma or GED and two years experience in pool maintenance. A certification in pool maintenance is preferred. Must obtain Certified Pool Operators License ( CPO ) within 6 months. Special Conditions Work Schedule Monday &#8211; Friday 7:30a.m. &#8211; 3:30p.m. May need to work/travel beyond normal work schedule Posting Date 11/05/2015 Closing Date 11/19/2015 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range Up to $12.92 per hour Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to use hands to handle, or feel. The employee frequently is required to stand; walk; sit; reach with hands and arms; climb or balance; stoop, kneel, or crouch; and talk or hear. The employee must frequently lift and/or move up to 25 pounds, occasionally lift and/or move up to 75 pounds and push or pull up to 250 pounds with appropriate tools or moving equipment. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision, and color vision. While performing the duties of this job, the employee is occasionally exposed to wet and humid conditions, chemicals, fumes and airborne particles, outdoor spaces. The noise level in the work environment is usually moderate. Additional Working Conditions Frequently lift and/or move up to 50 pounds. Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Maintain swimming pool water quality and water chemistry in accordance with State of Tennessee Health Department. safety standards and regulations. Clean pool components and equipment. Duties & Responsibilities Inspect, maintain and repair pumps, pipes, valves, filters, gauges, chemical addition equipment and other related pool equipment. Duties & Responsibilities Vacuum pools using pool vacuum. Duties & Responsibilities Responsible for the daily, weekly, and monthly preventative maintenance of the pools. Must complete the pool technician log and checklists. Perform corrective maintenance on pools and related equipment. Duties & Responsibilities Order supplies and maintain inventory. Clean pool decks and swimming area. Maintain pool plans, blueprints and technical specifications. Duties & Responsibilities Add chemicals to pools via automatic feeding systems or via manual hand feeding as necessary. Duties & Responsibilities Other duties as assigned. Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Resume Optional Documents Cover Letter References List