#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/membership/travel.php
Alumni Travel - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About Membership Join Now Services &amp; Benefits List of Benefits Email365 Insurance Travel New Grads Students Pouncer's Pals Home UMAA Membership Alumni Travel Tiger Treks: Worldwide Educational Tours The UofM Alumni Association is bringing alumni and friends together to explore new places and experience different cultures through exciting travel opportunities. For more information about these packages, visit gonext.com/memphis/ or call toll free 1.800.842.9023. Current trips available: Pacific Dreams of the Tahitian Islands January 25- February 24, 2016 Experience French Polynesia on one of the finest vessels afloat, Oceania Cruises’ majestic Marina , where every port of call is a stunning Pacific dream. Savor the tropical island splendors of Moorea, Bora Bora, Rangiroa, and more on this extraordinary voyage. View Photos and Map Colorful Caribbean March 13-20, 2016 Discover the colorful wonders of the Caribbean while cruising to enchanting tropical ports on Oceania Cruises’ elegant Riviera . Explore sun-drenched landscapes, intriguing Mayan ruins and storied cultures on an unforgettable odyssey. View Photos and Map Essence of the Atlantic May 14-28, 2016 Sail the sparkling Atlantic from New York to Lisbon, where beautiful ports and lush islands beckon with eclectic architecture, intriguing cultures and enchanting, rugged scenery, on a tranquil odyssey aboard Oceania Cruises’ luxurious Marina. View Photos and Map Regal Routes of Northern Europe June 13-24, 2016 Embark on an odyssey to Northern Europe, where beautiful medieval buildings edge tranquil canals and cobbled lanes lead to regal monuments. From London to Copenhagen, sail to enchanting ports in France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Norway and Sweden aboard Oceania Cruises’ majestic Marina . View Photos and Map Coastal Alaska August 4-11, 2016 Travel to Alaska, a natural wonder of stunning landscapes and unspoiled wilderness, aboard Oceania Cruises’ elegant Regatta . Depart Seattle and sail to Ketchikan, through the incredibly scenic Tracy Arm fjord to Wrangell, with a stop in Prince Rupert, B.C. on your return to Seattle. View Photos and Map Mediterranean Pathways and Piazzas October 14-22, 2016 From elegant churches rising above lively piazzas to cobbled pathways leading to colorful markets, explore the distinctive charms of the Mediterranean on a voyage from Rome to Monte Carlo aboard Oceania Cruises’ majestic Marina. Click here to view the pre-registration flyer. View Photos and Map The Magnificent Great Lakes July 8-17, 2016 Picture yourself surrounded by pristine islands draped in verdant wilderness and rocky shores caressed by sparkling blue waters. From Montreal to Chicago, cruise all five Great Lakes and the scenic St. Lawrence River aboard the new 210-guest MS Saint Laurent. View Photos and Map Membership Join Now Services &amp; Benefits List of Benefits Email365 Insurance Travel New Grads Students Pouncer's Pals Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .