#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/people/bios/bill-lawson.php
Bill Lawson - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact People Core Faculty Visiting Scholars Instructors Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Home Philosophy People Bill Lawson Bill Lawson Distinguished Professor of Philosophy Phone 901.678.2535 Email belawson@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.4365 Office 319 Clement Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours Call for Appointment CV About Professor Lawson Professor Lawson (PhD, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill) joined the department in 2005. He has taught at Spelman College, Montclair State College, West Virginia University, the University of Delaware, and Michigan State University. He teaches courses in the areas of African American philosophy and social and political philosophy. He has testified before a Congressional Subcommittee on the issue of Welfare Reform. He was a 2011-12 University of Liverpool –Fulbright Fellow at the University of Liverpool, Liverpool UK. Selected Publications Picturing Frederick Douglass, ed.with Celeste Bernier (special issue), African American Review (forthcoming 2016). Picturing Frederick Douglass, with Celeste Bernier, Henry Louis Gates, Jr., Zoe Trodd, John Stauffer and Sally Pierce (W.W. Norton &amp; Co., under contract). "The Value of Environmental Justice" in Environmental Justice, 1 (2008): 155-58. " Reflections on Booker T. Washington ," in Uncle Tom or New Negro? African Americans Reflect on Booker T. Washington and UP FROM SLAVERY 100 Years Later, ed. Rebecca Carroll (Harlem Moon, 2006). Pragmatism and the Problem of Race, ed. with Donald Koch (2004, Indiana University Press). Honorable Mention from the Gustavus Myers Center for the Study of Bigotry and Human Rights . " Microphone Commandoes: Rap Music and Political Philosophy " in Hip Hop &amp; Philosophy: Rhyme 2 Reason, ed. Tommie Shelby and Derrick Darby (Open Court, 2005), 161-72. My Bondage and My Freedom: An Introduction to Frederick Douglass's 'My Bondage and My Freedom' (2002, Humanity Books). Faces of Environmental Racism, ed. with Laura Westra (2001, Rowman &amp; Littlefield, 2nd. ed.) Frederick Douglass: A Critical Reader, ed. with Frank Kirkland (1999, Blackwell) " The Expressiveness of African-American Music " in Language, Art and Mind: Essays in Appreciation and Analysis in Honor of Paul Ziff, ed. Dale Jameson (Kluwer Academic, 1994), pp. 131-42. " Moral Discourse and Slavery " in Between Slavery and Freedom: Philosophy and American Slavery (Indiana University Press, 1992). Between Slavery and Freedom: Philosophy and American Slavery, with Howard McGary (1992, Indiana University Press) The Underclass Question (1992, Temple University Press) Recent &amp; Upcoming Presentations "Teaching Social and Political Philosophy and Teaching about Frederick Douglass," Liberating Sojourn 2: Transatlantic Abolitionists 1845-1860, University of Liverpool Institute of Latin American Studies (April 2009). "Self-deceived Hope or Despair: King and Bell on the Ending of Racism," American Philosophical Association Pacific Meetings (April 2009). "Toward a More Perfect Union: Obama and Color-Blind Public Policy," The Obama Phenomenon: Race and Political Discourse in the United States Today, The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change, University of Memphis (April 2009). "Boxill, Obama, and Colorblindness," American Philosophical Association Eastern Meetings (December 2008). "Booker T. Washington in the 21st Century," 11th Annual Summer Institute in American Philosophy, University of Colorado, Boulder (July 2008). "Toward a More Perfect Union: Obama and Color-Blind Public Policy," Race in 21st Century America: A 3rd National Conference, Michigan State University (April 2008). People Core Faculty Visiting Scholars Instructors Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .