#http://www.memphis.edu/uofmonline/Orientation/enroll.php
Begin Your Degree - UofM Online - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Online Programs Orientation Online Readiness Resources About AtoZ List UofM Online Student Orientation Choose Your Path. Begin Your Degree. Be Online Ready. Stay on Track. Home UofM Online Orientation Begin Your Degree Steps to Enroll Online classes are engaging and convenient but they do require high levels of self-discipline and motivation. To ensure a successful online experience, it is essential to have regular, reliable, access to the appropriate computer equipment and a high-speed internet connection. You must also have an active University of Memphis e-mail account. Are you ready to be a successful online student? Find out here. The enrollment process for online students is identical to that of on-campus students. Just follow these steps: Step 1. Complete an application. Complete and submit an application for admission. Please note that some programs require a special application. You should review the information for the undergraduate or graduate program that is of interest to you. Step 2. Send transcripts. Once your application is submitted, please contact any institutions that you have previously attended to request official copies of your transcripts. Ask the institution to send your transcripts to: Office of Admissions 101 John Wilder Tower The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 The Admissions Office will notify you within two weeks of receiving your application. Step 3. Apply for financial aid. Apply for financial aid as soon as possible! It is a lengthy approval process. eRate fees will be assessed for all out-of-state students who are enrolled solely in online courses for the semester that fees are incurred. This rate will consist of the in-state Maintenance Fees plus 50% of that Maintenance Fee. Students will not have to pay on-campus program or online course fees, but they will have to pay college- or program-specific fees as noted on the Bursar's fee charts. Please note: If the student enrolls in any on-campus courses, the full out-of-state maintenance fees will be assessed for all course sections, whether they are online or on-campus. Step 4. Meet with your Advisor. After you've been admitted, meet with your academic advisor. Undecided majors should contact the Academic Counseling Center. Decided majors contact your chosen academic department. If you are a full-time online student, complete an exemption request provided through Student Health Services. Without an approved exemption request or documentation of current immunizations, students will be restricted when attempting to register. Register * for your classes via the "Student" tab in the myMemphis portal. Be sure to read all of the footnotes about your classes! A registration guide will be mailed to you with your acceptance letter from the Admissions office, or you can find it under our links of interest. Be sure to pay your fees. In the myMemphis portal, check your Account$ tab frequently for balances due or messages from the Bursar regarding your account. Once you are registered, find out how to get started in your UofM Online courses. &gt;&gt;Next: Getting Started with UofM Online UofM Online Student Orientation Choose Your Path. Begin Your Degree. Be Online Ready. Stay on Track. UofM Online News University of Memphis Online Master's Program is Ranked Among the Best in Nation by ACO. UofM Online Undergraduate Programs Click to View the Fully Online Undergraduate Degree Programs offered at the University of Memphis UofM Online Graduate Programs Click to View the Fully Online Graduate Degree Programs offered at the University of Memphis Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .