#https://workforum.memphis.edu
WORKFORUM: University of Memphis Employment Opportunities Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS The University of Memphis is entering its second century of excellence and innovation. A strong and diverse workforce is key to this endeavor. We are pleased that you are interested in joining our dynamic and enterprising team of dreamers, thinkers and doers. In addition to competitive salaries and a collaborative work environment, we offer a robust benefits package that includes: Affordable health insurance plans Tuition assistance University-sponsored retirement accounts Generous paid leave Much more! As one of America&#39;s great metropolitan research universities, we have a 100-year history rich with tradition. With you joining our team of Tigers, our next 100 years are sure to be even richer! If you have questions or are unable to utilize this application process due to a disability, please contact the appropriate office: For assistance with staff, administrative executive, or athletic coach positions, contact Human Resources at workforce@memphis.edu or (901) 678-3573 for assistance. For assistance with full-time and part-time faculty or academic executive positions, contact Academic Affairs at facultyservices@memphis.edu or (901) 678-2119 for assistance. The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity, vldexter@memphis.edu , 156 Administration Building, (901) 678-2713. The University of Memphis policy on nondiscrimination can be found at . The Workforce Management Office is located on the main U of M Campus, in 165 Administration Building. Office hours are from 8:30 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Monday-Friday.