#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/ccfa/jour.php
JOUR - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions JOUR JOUR (JOUR) JOURNALISM M. David Arant, Ph.D., Chair Room 300, Edward J. Meeman Journalism Building In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: JOUR 4800-09. Special Topics in Journalism. (3). Intensive study of a single critical issue or current topic. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. JOUR 1700 - Survey Mass Communicatn (3) Social background, scope, functions, and organization of modern communication media, attention to all major mass communication media; philosophy and goals of modern journalism; impact on governmental, social and economic systems. [G] JOUR 1750 - Precision Language (3) Introduction to grammar and writing style for use in journalism and mass communication; foundations of research and information gathering, media literacy, and plagiarism. JOUR 1950 - Experiential Learning Credit (1-30) Credit given for work completed outside of the classroom prior to admittance to the University of Memphis. Presentation of portfolio work activity required. (S/U). JOUR 2121 - Media Writing (3) Basic instruction in journalistic forms and AP style; information gathering and composition of news stories; media literacy. One lecture hour, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 1750. JOUR 3120 - Reporting (3) Writing and reporting news and feature stories using both traditional and new media techniques with an emphasis on developing sources and advanced skills. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 2121. JOUR 3130 - Feature Writing (3) Advanced practice in writing, reporting and publishing feature stories for print and online, along with freelance techniques and advanced writing techniques with emphasis on leads, story endings, descriptive writing, and effective use of anecdotes. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 2121. JOUR 3140 - Opinion Writing (3) Principles and practices for well-researched and well-written editorials, columns, op-ed submissions, broadcast commentaries and long form analysis perspective pieces; thorough examination of the purpose and impact of opinion journalism on readers, political leaders, policy makers and society at large. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3120. JOUR 3150 - Sports Writing and Reporting (3) Development of advanced writing, reporting and professional skills specific to sports media; emphasis on practice of game reporting, feature stories, column and opinion writing and multimedia. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3120. JOUR 3160 - Food Writing (3) Addresses specialized niche of food writing by producing stories, both long and short form, and developing new media content for a class food blog. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3120. JOUR 3300 - Survey of Advertising (3) Exploration of creative function of advertising; emphasis on role of media. JOUR 3324 - Creative Strategy (3) Principles of advertising psychology in relation to proven techniques for understanding the creative process, including writing effective copy and designing effective advertising. One lecture hour, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 2121, 3900. JOUR 3400 - Intro Public Relations (3) Development, scope, and modern role of public relations; emphasis on problem solving, lectures, and application of major public relations tools and practices. JOUR 3409 - Public Relations Case Studies (3) (4420, 4423). Case studies and typical public relations problems; planning and preparation of communications materials for various media; application of public relations techniques. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3400. JOUR 3421 - Public Relations Writing (3) Emphasis on communication tactics; plan, write, and produce public relations tools; audience and media selection; print and electronic media and new media. Two lectures hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 2121, 3400. JOUR 3526 - Digital Imaging (3) Understanding the photograph and video as narrative through photojournalism techniques; learning to see, interpret and capture images that communicate information and have meaning and storytelling power; editing of digital images and video with software for use in broadcast, web and print; legal and ethical issues in photography. One lecture hour, four laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: JOUR -3900. JOUR 3649 - Radio News Practicum (3) Applied skills in producing, writing, reporting, and voicing daily news and information programming for campus radio station WUMR. One lecture hour, four laboratory hours per week. May be repeated for a maximum of six credit hours. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3625, or permission of instructor. (S/U) JOUR 3800 - Helmsman Workshop (1) Practical journalism experience through working at The Daily Helmsman. May be repeated for a maximum of 2 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. JOUR 3900 - Visual Communication (3) Introduction to and application of principles of visual communication, including typography, color and organization for print and digital media using Adobe Creative Cloud. One lecture hour, four laboratory hours per week. JOUR 3950 - Experiential Learning Credit (1-30) Credit given for work completed outside the classroom prior to admittance to the University of Memphis. Presentation of portfolio representative of work activity required. (S/U). JOUR 4102 - Entrepreneurial Media (3) Examines business models and new media tools that can encourage entrepreneurial thinking and planning in various fields of mass communication, as well as the theory and practices of traditional media management. Topics include assessment, organization and strategy, budgeting, decision-making, and other functions in advertising, news, and public relations. JOUR 4120 - Advanced Reporting (3) Writing and reporting news and in-depth feature stories about topics, such as government, courts, education, science, trends and community-wide issues; emphasis on using public records and national sources as well as key local sources. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3120. JOUR 4124 - Computer Assisted Reporting (3) Advanced use of computer technology and investigative techniques to access, analyze and develop database information in combination with traditional news reporting. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3120, or permission of instructor. JOUR 4140 - News Design (3) Advanced skills and techniques for design of printed media, including magazine and newspaper design; emphasis on story and page design, graphics, headlines and other display typography; approaches to print design presentation on digital platforms. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3900. JOUR 4301 - Event Management/HPRM & PR (3) (Same as HPRM 4301). Development, execution and evaluation of events that support strategic communication practices; emphasis on advertising and public relations tactics for non-profit, for profit and communitybased initiatives and organizations. PREREQUISITE: students must have completed 60 hours of coursework. JOUR 4326 - Advertising Research (3) (3345). Fundamentals in advertising research; nature of the market, appropriate advertising strategies, message effectiveness and media audiences; primary and secondary research, sampling, questionnaire design, survey, and data processing and analysis. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 2121, 3300. COREQUISITE: JOUR 4327. JOUR 4327 - Media Planning (3) Procedures for analyzing the advertising situation, writing advertising and media goals, and setting advertising appropriations. Use of a microcomputer program to develop and evaluate optimum advertising media schedules. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3300 and MKTG 3010. JOUR 4328 - Strategic Adv Campaigns (3) Development of an integrative campaign and its execution in include all advertising and promotion applications. (Sp). PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3324, 4326, 4327, or permission of instructor. JOUR 4410 - Public Relations Research (3) (3410). Identifying, characterizing and evaluating stakeholder groups and alternative channels of communication; formal research procedures include sampling, instrument design, information gathering, data processing, analysis and reporting. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3400 and 3421. JOUR 4421 - Crisis Comm in Public Relation (3) Explores theories and research related to public relations communication before, during and after a crisis; examines the fundamentals of organizational communication, crisis management and strategic planning. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 4410. JOUR 4431 - Music Promo/Public Relations (3) Examines publicity and promotion of artists and events within the music industry. Focuses on music journalism; advanced writing of collateral material, hosting events, planning, preparing and working events for artists in various capacities. PREREQUISITE: students must have successfully completed 75 credit hours. JOUR 4440 - Public Relations Campaigns (3) Application of theory, research data, and problem-solving techniques in the development of comprehensive public relations strategies. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3900, 4410. JOUR 4500 - Web Publish I: html/CSS (3) Introduction of web design software of Dreamweaver; development of website projects; incorporation of target audience analysis and web usability; presentation of website projects from servers. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3900. JOUR 4526 - Advanced Digital Imaging (3) Advanced skills and photojournalism techniques for still photography and video; emphasis on action, sports, fashion, food, and portraits. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3526. JOUR 4550 - Web Publish II: html/CSS (3) Creation and development of website projects; systematic training in writing html codes; focused learning of cascading style sheet (CSS); final production of a multimedia project. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 4500. JOUR 4560 - Interactive News (3) Creation and development of interactive news stories for web using ActionScript; integrating writing and reporting, designing and presenting audio, video, slideshows elements in production of a multimedia story. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 4500. JOUR 4629 - TV News Writing/Reporting (3) Gathering, writing and presentation of news for television. Students will shoot, write, edit, and voice packages for use in both the reporting and producing classes.PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3526, 4120. COREQUISITE: JOUR 4639. Permission of Department required for registration. JOUR 4639 - TV News Producing (3) Producing, writing, editing and using electronic equipment to assemble a television newscast; emphasis on performing the various tasks in a working newsroom. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3526, 4120. COREQUISITE: JOUR 4629. Permission of Department required for registration. JOUR 4700 - Mass Communication Law (3) Origin and development of legal principles affecting freedom of expression and provisions of laws of libel, slander, copyright, and other statutes limiting communication in fields of publishing and broadcasting. JOUR 4702 - Mass Media/Diversity/Society (3) Advanced study of critical problems faced by mass media, with exploration of complexities that cause them. JOUR 4708 - Mass Media Ethics (3) Classical approaches to ethics presented with their application to the day-to-day considerations journalism, public relations and advertising professionals must face in working with employers, local publics and the larger society which depends on a free flow of accurate information. JOUR 4712 - Mass Media and Cultures (3) Designed for the professional communicator who needs to understand different cultures, both foreign and domestic; intercultural communication, comparison of cultural values and behaviors, the nature of news in different cultures, the international flow of news, growth and impact of global journalism, television, advertising, and public relations. JOUR 4716 - History Mass Communication (3) (3700). Major events, stories, personalities, and issues shaping development of mass communication with special emphasis on the history of American journalism, from advent of printing to the age of the Internet. JOUR 4720 - Presidents and the Press (3) Conflict and symbiosis between the White House and the news media; studies of history, journalism, and politics; how various presidents used or failed to use the media, how they were covered and represented, and how that relationship has changed over the years. JOUR 4802 - Covering the Olympics (3) Meeman 901 Strategies, a student run public relations firm, will gain hands-on experience by developing creative projects for campus and community clients at UM Crews Center for Entrepreneurship. Permission of Department required for registration. JOUR 4830 - Directed Indiv Study (1-3) Independent study and research, or practicum, or project under supervision. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. JOUR 4900 - Multimedia Visual Comm (3) Planning, development, design and execution of a project for print and digital display, including data visualization, illustration, branding, video and photography. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3900 and must have earned 75 credit hours. JOUR 4910 - Advanced Social Media (3) Advanced skills in social media content creation, apps, and analytics; emphasis on messaging strategies for news and strategic communication; evaluation of capabilities and tactics for existing and emerging media platforms. JOUR 4920 - Data Visualization (3) Visual presentation of quantitative and spatial information. Examines the planning, design, and preparation of statistical graphs, charts, timelines, diagrams, and maps. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3900. JOUR 4930 - Media Internship (3) Work under supervision of qualified mass media practitioner. NOTE: Students who have received credit for JOUR 4130, 4330, 4430 may not receive credit for JOUR 4930. PREREQUISITE: Permit required and must have earned 45 credit hours. (S/U). JOUR 4998 - Multimedia News Lab (3) Write, produce content for a personal beat-driven blog that will house multimedia stories on important, complex topics in the city of Memphis; course will mirror collaborative opportunities underway in industry and provide students with the strongest multimedia material possible for portfolios. PREREQUISITE: JOUR 3526, 4120 and 4500. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .