#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11431
Assistant Professor of Media Studies Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant Professor of Media Studies Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC440 Advertised Title Assistant Professor of Media Studies Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 001786 Category Full-Time Faculty Department Communication Position Summary The Department of Communication at the University of Memphis seeks to hire a tenure-track assistant professor of Media Studies beginning August 2016. PhD required. The position requires expertise in some combination of the following: critical studies of digital media (including emerging and/or social media), digital rhetoric, technology studies, and media theory. Priority will be given to candidates capable of integrating practice with critical analysis of new media at an undergraduate level. Successful candidates will have an active research agenda; demonstrate excellence in teaching; interest in interdisciplinary teaching and research; and ability to advise MA and PhD students across the different foci of the department. A successful candidate will also be able to teach courses in face-to-face and online formats. Minimum Position Qualifications PhD required Special Conditions The Department of Communication offers BA, MA, and PhD degrees, with doctoral specializations in Health Communication; Rhetoric, Politics and Society; and Media, Technology and Society. Please see the Department&#8217;s website at for more information. Posting Date 11/02/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range competitive Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Applicants are required to upload a cover letter, CV, writing sample, evidence of teaching effectiveness, and contact information for three references online at workforum.memphis.edu. Review of applications will begin December 15, 2015 and continue until the position is filled. Instructions to Applicant regarding references Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Cover Letter References List Other Document 4 Other Document 6 Optional Documents Other Document 5