#http://www.memphis.edu/polisci/pdfs/why_graduate_study.pdf
1. Our graduates are successful, as our program is an effective springboard into both academic and non - academic ca- reers. We prepare students for successful careers in the academic, public, and private sectors. Many of our best students have gone on to leading Ph.D. programs and law school, as well as successful careers in politics, not - for - profit leadership, and business. Showing excellence in a Master's - level graduate program is a great way to increase the likelihood of being accepted into a top Ph.D. program, and our graduates have gone on to many of the top Ph.D. programs in political science, including: Uni- versity of Arizona, University of Colorado, Emory University, Florida State University, University of Indiana, University of Cal i- fornia at Santa Cruz, University of California at Irvine, University of Kansas, Leeds University, University of Missouri, Pur due University, the State University of New York at Binghamton, University of Washington, and University of Wisconsin. 2. Our assistantships cover all fees and tuition, and stipends are quite competitive with other graduate pro- grams. Graduate assistants work for 20 hours per week with graduate faculty. They have enriching and stimulating oppor- tunities to assist faculty in the undergraduate classroom and on faculty research projects. 3. Our students develop a critical and versatile skill - set. Many of our students have worked as paid research assistants on externally - funded projects such as the Urban Child Insti- tute ( ). Some students present papers at professional conferences, and submit papers for publication in research journals. For students seeking employment outside of academia, we offer the necessary analytic and methodological tools so neces- sary for success in the private sector. 4. We have an excellent student - to - faculty ratio in our graduate program . Our average graduate seminar has about 10 students. This enables faculty to give a lot of individual attention to each of our graduate students. 5. We offer a well - rounded curriculum: We have productive scholars with active research agendas in American Govern- ment, Comparative Politics, International Relations, and Political Theory. Our faculty publish in the leading journals and presses of our discipline, and have respected reputations in their fields. Our varied expertise allows us to accommodate a large range of student interests both in the classroom and individual graduate research projects. You can meet our facul- ty at: 6. National visibility: Over the past six years we have attracted students to our MA program from a number of prestigious undergraduate programs such as Hendrix College, Rhodes College, the University of Wisconsin, the University of Iowa, Flori- da State University, Valdosta State University, Tulane University, Vanderbilt University, Wilmington College, Loyola Universi- ty, and Rutgers University. Additionally, we have placed graduating MA students in several PhD programs recognized nation- ally for their excellence. Department of Political Science 437 Clement Hall University of Memphis Phone: 901 - 678 - 2395 Please contact Dr. Eric Groenendyk, Graduate Recruiting Coordinator, by e - mail for additional information.