#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/biology.pdf
Revised 5 April 2007 Tenure and Promotion Procedures and Criteria Department of Biology, The University of Memphis I. Overview All candidates for tenure and promotion should demonstrate significant productivity in research and scholarship, as well as effective teaching and s ervice, consistent with documented expectations. Excellence in direct instruction and in all other professional activities related to teaching is the principal reason for existence of the University. Teaching conveys knowledge to students, helps them devel op the skills and desire to seek knowledge, requires them to engage in critical analysis, and prepares them to enter into professions and scholarly disciplines. Scholarship, through discovery of new facts and production of new ideas, advances knowledge and learning in biology. Faculty are expected to engage in scholarly activities that generate new knowledge or new interpretations of existing ideas and to participate in the application of these ideas. They should communicate the results of their work throug h appropriate media to the scientific community. Candidates for tenure and/or promotion must have developed an original research program of high quality that is making a continuing and substantial contribution to science. For annual and mid - tenure evalu ations and applications for tenure and/or promotion, it is the faculty member's responsibility to document contributions and accomplishments according to departmental, College and University guidelines. The faculty member should carefully study the criteri a and procedures established by the Regents and the University (see Faculty Handbook ), the College and the department. Physical evidence such as syllabi and other teaching materials, student evaluations, publications, and documentation of service and outre ach activities should become part of an ongoing and continuously updated dossier. Each faculty member makes unique contributions and has different assignments relative to teaching, scholarship, and service, and faculty activities will be evaluated individu ally and collectively for tenure and promotion decisions. II. Annual Reviews/Evaluations Near the end of each academic year, the Tenure and Promotion Committee will review the annual Activity R eport of each untenured faculty member and provide written progress toward tenure and promotion in each of the three main categories for assessment: teaching, scholarship, and service . The annual review document will be given to the untenured faculty member and the department chair. The chair of the T&P committee will meet with untenured faculty to discuss the document. III. Mid - tenure Reviews The Tenure and Promotion C ommittee will conduct a mid tenure review of each untenured faculty member during the second semester of the third yea r of employment at the University of Memphis. This review will occur earlier in cases for faculty with reduced probationary time. The mid te nure , all annual Activity Reports submitted to the 2 2 department c hair , and previous annual reviews evaluations, copies of publications, and documentation of service activities should be included in the file for the mid tenure review. The mid t enure evaluation dos sier should follow th e format of the T&P application preparing the candidate for full evaluation. Results of the mid term evaluation will be in written, standardized form covering the following categories: Teaching, Scholarship and Service. These results will be presented to the department chair and to the faculty member. The purpose of this review is to provide constructive remarks and tenure and promotion. None response to the actual application for tenure, or promotion, and a formal disclaimer to this effect will be part of the evaluation. However, this review will be incorporated into th e candidates T&P application package . The mid tenure review will establish a framework for subsequent tenure and promotion. the candidate an opportunity to provide additional information, either in writing or in a personal meeting. The Tenure and Promotion Committee will conduct a review of each associate professor during the second semester of the third to fifth year after promotion to associate professor. The review will be and documentation of servic should reflect teaching, scholarship and service since promotion to associate professor. Faculty contemplating an application for promotion to full professor may request a similar r eview at least one year prior to their application. Results of the evaluation will be in written, standardized form covering the following categories: Teaching, Scholarship and Service. These results will be presented to the department chair and to the fa culty member, and the dossier and report will then be forwarded to the dean. The purpose of this review is to provide appropriate constructive remarks and recommendations regarding the faculty ion to full professor. None of these promotion, and a formal disclaimer to this effect will be part of the evaluation. The post tenure review will estab lish a fram ework for subsequent promotion. IV. Criteria for Tenure and Promotion to Associate Professor The criteria that follow are flexible rather than rigid. Assessment of performance is done regarding the individual faculty members specifically assi gned duties as delineated on annual activity reports and evaluations. A candidate is expected to integrate information from the annual reviews and evaluations into the tenure and promotion application. The candidate is responsible for providing the Tenure and 3 3 Promotion Committee with all supportive materials that substantiate the range, significance, and quality of work with regard to teaching, scholarship, and service. The guidelines for tenure and the guidelines for promotion to associate professor are t he same. A candidate may not be awarded tenure without the rank of associate professor . Under special circumstances, application for promotion to associate professor is possible prior to awarding of tenure. Qualifications for tenure and promotion: A. Length of service : Application for tenure and promotion to Associate professor is made at the beginning of the sixth (6th) year unless: (a) a reduced probationary period was negotiated at the time of employment or, (b) a stopping or slowing of the tenure clock for extraordinary circumstances has been agreed upon by the department chair , the dean, and the president, or (c) upon extraordinary progress toward meeting tenure qualifications, the department chair, dean, and the president agree upon a reduced te nure probationary period. B. Appropriate degree : A doctorate in an area of the biological sciences from an accredited college or university . C. Teaching : Excellent teaching is the result of the instructor's mastery of the subject, clear organization an d presentation, use of appropriately up - to - date materials and methodology, respect for and fair treatment of students, and willingness to engage with them in open dialogue. Evidence of excellence in these endeavors of teaching is essential for the award of tenure or promotion. The candidate for tenure and/or promotion must present clear evidence communicate with students in a classroom environment, demonstrate command of the subject matter, organize material and convey it effectively to students, motivate students, produce appropriate evaluation methods, exhibit continuous growth in the subject field. Evidence of teaching effectiveness may include, but is not limited to, some combination of the sources listed below: honors or special recognitions for teaching accomplishments development of courses, curriculum, and instructional methods innovative courses, teaching material, or instructional techniques leadership rol e in the development or significant revision of curriculum or course of study creative use of technology in teaching and approaches to learning 4 4 student evaluations and accomplishments student ratings of instruction letters/evaluations from former stude nts chair evaluations of instruction evaluation by colleagues selection for teaching activities outside the University, e.g. Fulbright Awards, special lectureships, panel presentations, seminar participation peer evaluation of teaching activities successfu l direction of individual student work such as independent studies, student research, or special student projects successful direction of theses and dissertations teaching honors courses It is recognized that there is great variability in the degree and a pproach to teaching among the faculty within the Department of Biology. Some faculty may regularly teach broad survey courses involving large number s of students, whereas others provide intensive, individual instruction to a small number of students. Such variability will be considered in establishing expectations for performance, and differences in the manner in which teaching is conducted will be taken into account in evaluation of faculty performance. D. Research/ Scholarship : Candidates must have a rec ord of high quality professional productivity, which is leading to national recognition in his or her academic discipline and gives a strong indication that scholarly productivity will continue. The candidate is expected to have developed an independent an d productive research program at the University of Memphis that has advanced significantly beyond, or is independent of, pre - and postdoctoral research accomplishments. Prior to review of the dossier by the departmental T&P committee, candidate should pres ent a departmental seminar demonstrating the development of an independent research program at the University of Memphis. The primary indicator of progress toward establishment of national recognition shall be the publication of research findings in qualit y peer - reviewed journals (as rejection, the reputation of the journals, and empirically - based journal impact ratings). The quality of research is more important t however, there must be evidence of a consistent and continuing publication record. Success in acquiring peer - reviewed grants and contracts will serve as additional evidence of progress towa rd establishing a national research reputation. The candidate must have actively sought extramural funding and should have been successful in this endeavor. The opinions of the external reviewers on record and extramural funding compares to individuals at institutions similar to the University of Memphis. . 5 5 Various aspects of sc holarship are assessed from evidence provided by the candidate . A ppropriate items may include but are not restricted to the following: honors and awards for research or other scholarly activities publication of research books, reviews, monographs, bulletins, articles, and other scholarly works published by reputable journals, scholarly presses, or publishing houses that accepts works only after rigorous review by peers in the discipline scholarly reviews of publications by the candidate presentation at professional meetings competitive grants and con tracts to finance research recognition by colleagues and organizations -- invited papers, colloquia and awards. The scholarship of teaching, which focuses on transforming and extending knowledge about pedagogy, is appropriate in biology. Classroom teaching not limited to: writing an appropriate textbook, innovative contributions to teaching which are published or pres ented in a peer - reviewed forum, research in teaching and learning that leads to new insights into how biological knowledge and skills are most effectively taught and learned at all levels, development of software that provides new or improved ways for teac hing or learning biology, and grants obtained to finance teaching research. E. Service : Faculty perform a broad array of services that are vital to supporting and sustaining the quality and effectiveness of the University and its programs. Faculty member s are expected to provide service to the University, its students, clients, programs and professional discipline, and the broad er community. Service includes U niversity service, professional service, and outreach. The candidate for tenure and/or promotion should clearly document the nature, scope, and value of his/her service activities. University service includes but is not limited to: participation and leadership roles on departmental, college, or University committees and task forces, advising and rec ruiting students, service to student organizations, and serving on the Faculty Senate. 6 6 Professional service includes but is not limited to: leadership roles in professional organizations (election to offices or committees) , editorship of journals and n ewsletters of professional societies, membership on panels reviewing grant proposals and contracts , developing and organizing appropriate conferences and workshops, reviews of manuscripts and grant proposals, guest lecturing on other campuses, and curato rial activities Outreach is sharing professional expertise with parties outside the university, and such activities should support and contribute to attainment of the goals and missions of the department, the college, and the university. Items here includ e but are not limited to: lectures given to various public groups, service on boards and commissions that utilize and enhance disciplinary and professional expertise, consulting in the public and private sectors, and efforts with K - 12 enrichment. V. Cri teria for Promotion to Full Professor A. Length of service : Candidate must have at least ten (10) years appropriate professional experience (excluding experience concurrent with and in the same institution where studies were taken for an advanced degree) in the instructional discipline or related area. B. Appropriate degree : A doctorate in an area of the biological sciences from an accredited college or university C. Teaching : Candidate must have a sustained record of distinguished and effective teachi ng at the undergraduate and graduate level. This will be measured primarily by input from students and faculty colleagues in the form of student evaluations, letters from former students, peer evaluations, receipt of awards or recognition for teaching exce llence, and any other means that will attest to the candidate's teaching effectiveness (see other examples above). D. Research /Scholarship : Candidate must have a post - tenure record of high - quality professional productivity and national and/or internation al recognition in the academic discipline . National and/or international recognition will be measured by performance in the following areas: publication of research results in the highest - quality peer - reviewed journals; significant record of invited presen tations at important meetings and conferences and at major research universities; authorship and/or editorship of review articles, books, or monographs; a consistent record of peer - reviewed external research funding indicating that the candidate will be ab le to provide a sufficient level of support for his or her future research efforts; receipt of professional honors and awards; and any other accomplishments demonstrating that the candidate is a leader in his or her scientific discipline. There will be an independent assessment of the significance and 7 7 promotion to full professor, the overall external review must be construed as positive. Candidate must also have a demonstrated and consistent record of successfully directing graduate students and /or post - doctorates. E. Service : Candidate must have a record of institutional, professional, and community service that include s evidence of significant contributi on to the curriculum, institutional and educational goals, or intellectual life of the University as a whole, especially as these activities demonstrate professional leadership. Additionally, service on important scientific review boards and panels, editor ial and advisory boards and committees, and in professional organizations, or the organization of professional conferences/meetings is deemed appropriate for candidates seeking promotion to full professor. VI. Application Process A. The department cha ir will be notified during the spring semester (not later than February 28 ) by faculty who plan to submit an application for tenure and/or promotion in the forthcoming fall semester. B. The department chair will provide each candidate with the cover fo rm and the department tenure and promotion document. The candidate should also consult the University and College Guidelines regarding tenure and/or promotion , as their dossier must conform to university and college requirements . The candidate is encourage d to consult with the chairperson of the Tenure and Promotion Committee on application protocol. The candidate is encouraged to ask a colleague to review his/her application prior to submitting it to the Tenure and Promotion Committee. The ication will be submitted to the department office by a date specified by the department chair. This date must precede the date requirement of the College of Arts and Sciences by a suitable interim. The candidate should submit material containing at lea st the following ( NOTE : none of the materials submitted should be originals) : 1. Evidence of having completed the terminal degree in the discipline. 2. A complete current curriculum vita, using the sta ndard university form and style, and the er Sheet. 3. 8 8 4. An instructional history to include: a. A statement of teaching philosophy . b. A history of all courses taught each term, including number of students enrolled (Appendix A of UM CV) c. Student ratings of instruction and SIRS summaries ( ) from all classes taught at the University of Memphis to include: a minimum of six (6) different sections or classes over a pe riod of at least the last five years and using a form approved by the department, college, and university. Supplementary material, to be placed in a separate binder , should include individual student responses from each class as well as computer summary fo rms. Cases may arise where the candidate is unable to meet the minimum number of ratings for this requirement. This condition may apply to faculty with assignment of a large percentage of their time to research. In addition, a candidate with reduced probat ionary period may be required to submit fewer student ratings of instruction. The exact number will be determined in consultation with the chair of the Tenure and Promotion Committee and the chairperson of the department. d. Evidence of curricular devel opment activities, e.g. development of new courses, revisions of current courses, innovative teaching materials, and any other items which document student learning, new instructional approaches, or development of instructional materials. e. Awards and recog nitions that the candidate and department deem appropriate and relevant 5. A record of advising activities, both of formal and informal nature, which attests to the mmitment to the understanding of the need for educational goals and the in the selection of courses or careers, serving as faculty advisor with student groups, a ssisting in education programs both on and off campus, and mentoring graduate and undergraduate students. Documentation should include the number of students advised/served and their educational level (e.g., undergraduate, masters, doctoral) and the advisi ng or mentoring services provided. Evaluations will consider innovations and creativity of services and their effectiveness. 6. A record of scholarship (normally found in the vita), including a complete list of scholarly publications and presentations, awards and recognitions, and other information that the high quality scholarship and scholarly productivity. Supplementary materials, to be placed in a separate bi nder , should include reprints. 7. A record of the application for and acquisition of funding, both extramural and intramural, including the dates, sources, purposes, and results of all such efforts. 9 9 8. A record of professional service, university service, and community outreach. 9. A copy of each annual planning document and associated annual evaluation for the five (5) preceding years (four (4) preceding years for tenure) or since initial appointment, whichever is less. C. External review letters : The chair o f the Tenure and Promotion Committee will obtain a minimum of four (4) external peer reviewers for candidates for tenure and promotion. These four reviewers will be selected from a list including a minimum of seven (7) names of qualified individuals who ar The candidate will submit a list of potential reviewers by the end of March. The department chair and the chair of the Tenure and Promotion Committee will also develop a list of potential extern al reviewers. No more than one reviewer may have been a major advisor or collaborator, regardless of the number of letters obtained from external reviewers. A collaborator is any colleague or student with whom the candidate is currently conducting resear ch or other significant professional activities or with whom the candidate has conducted such activities within the past five years. Scientific mentors specifically Masters, Doctoral, and Postdoctoral major advisors are considered collaborators regardl ess of the length of time that has passed since concluding professional activities. When selecting qualified peers, every effort should be made to minimize biases for or against the candidate. The final list of reviewers will be chosen by the department Te nure and Promotion Committee and the Department Chair. All external reviewers must be at the professorial rank aspired to by the candidate or higher rank. Promotion to full professor will require all reviewers be at the rank of full professor. The peer eva e choice of external reviewers. All reviewers should receive the same materials for evaluation; if not, an expla nation should be included. Peer reviewers who have agreed to write letters of evaluation should be sent the , selected publications, and a letter you assess the quality of the scholarly that the State of Tennessee has an Open Records Law and that the candidate has access to the outside peer evaluation d be sent to external reviewers. D. Departmental Chair Responsibilities : The Department Chair shall assure that the following information is provided to the Dean for inclusion in the c 1. potential for continuing scholarly growth and development; 2. and 3. A minimum of four (4) letters from external reviewers. 10 10 The Department Chair shall also have the responsibility for providing in the Tenure and ding the - refereed; invited or submitted for review; local, regional, national international; disciplinary, interdisciplinary, and/or public and so on). The Dep Dean. VII. Composition and Functioning of Departmental Committee A. Inclusion Criteria : The Tenure and Promotion Committee of the Department of Biology will consist of all tenured associate and full professors except the department chair. Only tenured full professors will vote on candidates applying for promotion to full professor. B. Exclusion Criteria : The candid ate for promotion and/or tenure shall not be present during Committee discussion or vote. In order to vote on tenure or promotion, a me mber of the Committee must have in the Committee discussion of that candidate. For purposes of voting on any tenure and/or promotion matter, faculty shall remove themselves from any discussion, voting, or participation that could influence voting on tenure and/or promotion matters when the candidate is : 1. A member of that faculty member's immediate family (e.g. spouse, son, daughter, or other family member residing in that family member's household). 2. A member of that faculty member's extended family (e.g. siblings, parents, grandparents, cousin s, uncles, aunts, or other next of kin). 3. Any other person where there would exist the appearance of conflict of interest or impropriety. C. How/when is chair elected : The chairperson of the Tenure and Promotion Committee shall be elected for a te rm of one year (January December) by the members of the T&P committee during the fall semester of the preceding year. D. Quorum and minimum committee size : A quorum, consisting of two thirds (2/3) of the membership, must be present for this Committee t o convene and conduct business. If there are fewer than four faculty eligible to vote on a candidate, the Committee will submit a request to the Dean through the Department Chair to establish a four - member committee using faculty of eligible rank from othe r units. E. Voting procedures : Applications will be grouped and acted upon in the following order: (1) tenure and, (2) promotion. Within each group, applicants will be considered in alphabetical 11 11 reviewed and discussed, a vote and promotion recommendations. No ballots will be counted until a vote has been taken on all applicants. The Committee will verba application, and the committee chairperson shall write down, collate the remarks, and complete the forms for each applicant. Nothing may be add ed to or delete d from the dossier after the vote by the Tenure an d Promotion Committee. F. Recommendation : recommendations will be forwarded to the Department Chair. If the Department Chair is being considered for tenure or promotion, the dossier sh all be transmitted directly from the Tenure and Promotion Committee to the Dean. independent of the T&P committee recommendation. Department chair notifies applicant of progress - to - date. VI I I. Modification of T&P Guidelines The tenured associate and full professors of the Department of Biology, in consultation with the faculty, shall be responsible for establishing departmental policies and procedures for tenure and promotion. Guidelines will be reviewed every six years, but amendments may be suggested at any time. Amendments may be proposed by tenured associate and full professors in the department and must be approved by a simple majority of the departmental Tenure and Promotion Committee. All department criteria must be approved by the Chair, the Dean and the Provost. These guidelines are to be on file in the departmental office and should be distributed to all new faculty, to candidates for annual and midterm reviews , and to applicants for tenure and/or promoti on. These criteria are also to be included with tenure and promotion applications sent to the College. 12 12 IX. Time Table Step Responsibility Action Due Date 1 Candidate Notify department chair of intention to apply for tenure and/or promotion February 28 2 Candidate Submit annotated list of potential external reviewers to T&P Committee Chair March 31 3 Candidate Submit packet of publications and vita for the Department Chair to send to external reviewers April 15 4 T&P Chair In consultation with Depart ment Chair, select external reviewers and solicit their agreement to April 15 5 T&P Chair and department guidelines to external reviewers; prepare statement of rational fo r selection of external reviewers May 1 6 Candidate Submit complete dossier and supplementary materials to Department Chair September 1 7 Candidate Present seminar of research program at U of M September 2 8 T&P Committee Review dossier and supplementary materials; discuss and vote in committee meeting(s); draft committee recommendation for committee members to review September/ October 9 T&P Comm. Chair Finalize committee recommendation and submit it to Department Chair September/ October 10 Department Chair reviews, and T&P Committee recommendation; prepare recommendation October 11 Department Chair Inform candidate(s) for tenure and promotion to associate professor of T&P Committee and Department Chai r recommendations October 12 Department Chair publications as a supplement), external reviews, recommendations of T&P Committee and Department Chair October 1 The specified dates for September and October events are in accordance with the calendar issued by the College of Arts and Sciences. 2 Prior to review of dossier by departmental T&P committee.