#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/ceri_pandt_2014.pdf
1 Center for Earthquake Research and Information Tenure and Promotion Guidelines (Unanimously approved by the CERI faculty at the October 20, 2014, CERI Faculty Meeting) The following criteria and supporting information may be used as guides for individuals, center committees and the Center Director in matters of tenure and promotion at CERI . Any individual applying for tenure and promotion must meet the criteria and req uirements set forth by the State Board of Regents, the University, as stated in the current U of M Faculty Handbook, their respective College, and CERI . The candidate is obligated to be familiar with requirements that exist at the time of application. To ensure that expectations are met, the faculty member should consult frequently with the Center Director . General Requirements: Tenure and promotion are closely related because both are granted for effective performance, professional growth and potential in the areas of endeavor. For both tenure and promotion, the candidateÕs activities in the three areas of teaching, research and service will be evaluated. The relative importance of these will be different for tenure -track and research faculty . While indi viduals are not expected to excel in all three areas, progress and potential are expected. Furthermore, it should be noted that satisfying fewer areas would impose higher standards for evaluation in those areas. A terminal degree in candidateÕs specialt y is normally required at all levels of promotion and for tenure. Research faculty appointments are made to the ranks of research professor, research associate professor, or research assistant professor (see relevant pages of the Faculty Handbook). Resea rch faculty are subject to the same promotion guidelines as regular faculty except that advancement will be based primarily, or solely, on research achievements as outlined in the individual's faculty appointment. Currently, under university guidelines, re search faculty are not eligible for tenure. For those appointed primarily in research positions, fulfilling the terms as specified in their contract is of considerable importance. The majority of specific requirements, timetables, forms, and resources ar e provided by the University and not repeated in this document. Those resources are available here Additional specific requirements are found in the University Faculty Handbook on page 56 as of July 1, 2014. The current version is available here 2 CERI faculty in the College of Arts and Sciences are also required to conform with the CAS tenure and promotion guidelines available here : -resources/tenure_and_promotion/tenure_promo_guidelines.php CERI f aculty with dual appointments may have additional requirements as specif ied by their C ollege and home department. Herff College of Engineering guidelines are available here : CERI Specific Requirements In addition to the university and college guidelines for tenure and promotion, the candidate at CERI will be evaluated on the basis of additional specific criteria. Six areas of effort will be considered: teaching, advising/m entoring, scholarship, support, service, and outreach. The following description of an ideal faculty member at CERI presents the criteria that will be considered and sets the standards toward which we can aspire. Of course, it should not be construed as a rigid formula because none of the items is a necessary condition; it is the ensemble that matters. Criteria for Teaching Performance An excellent teacher is one who: 1. teaches a minimum of 6 credit hours per year (3 for research professors) 2. is an effective teacher as measured by student evaluations and reports (e.g. SIRS or SETE) and by comments contained in the CERI Educational Program Review 3. develops new courses or new classroom methodologies 4. obtains external funds to improve teaching/learnin g or develop new courses Criteria for Advising/Mentoring An excellent advisor is one who: 1. advises >2 graduate students 2. engages students in innovative research leading to publishable results 3. advises students through the completion of their degrees and provides all necessary resources for the completion of degrees 4. creates a positive mentoring relationship with each student that is helpful, collegial, and encourages original thought Criteria for Schol arship Performance An excellent scholar is one who, on an annual basis: 1. publishes significant papers and books, some first -authored, that establish the author as a recognized leader, expert, or innovator in the profession 2. maintains a research program with high national and international visibility that attracts outstanding graduate students, visiting scientists, and post -doctoral scholars 3. receives invitations to speak at national/international meetings 3 4. receives invitations to speak at departmental colloquia across the nation 5. presents or contributes to multiple abstracts at national/international meetings Criteria for Support Performance A faculty member providing excellent support is one who: 1. provides sustained RA support for more than two students each year 2. acquires funding for multiple grants and/or has multiple proposals pending Criteria for Service Performance A faculty member providing excellent service to his or her university (department and college leve l units), profession, and society is one who: 1. serves on and in particular, chairs national or international government or professional scientific committees 2. serves on and in particular, chairs university committees 3. serves as an administrator or Faculty Se nate officer in the university 4. serves as an editor or associate editor for professional scientific journals 5. reviews many proposals for funding agencies and manuscripts for professional scientific journals 6. is an officer in one or more professional scientifi c societies 7. organizes meetings, workshops, and short courses for professional societies Criteria for Outreach Performance A faculty member providing excellent outreach is one who: 1. presents talks at other universities and colleges 2. involves undergraduates at local colleges and universities in research projects 3. shares professional expertise with the wider community 4. actively recruits students for the graduate program Committee Structure The CERI tenure and promotion committee for tenure -track faculty is composed of all tenure -track faculty at or above the rank to be promoted (e.g. the committee considering promotion to Associate Professor with tenure contains all tenure track faculty at or above rank of Associate Professor with tenure). Research -track faculty at or above the rank to be promoted may participate in the discussions of tenure -track faculty promotions to help build consensus but may not vote. The CERI promotion committee for research -track faculty is composed of all tenure -track and research -track faculty at or above the rank to be promoted (e.g. the committee considering promotion to Research Associate Professor contains all faculty at or above the rank of Associate Professor or Research Associate Professor).