#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/ccfa/art.php
Art - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Art Art RICHARD A. LOU, MFA Chair Room 200, Art &amp; Communication Bldg 901.678.2217 NILES WALLACE, MFA Coordinator of Graduate Studies 901.678.4899 E-mail: nwallace@memphis.edu FRED ALBERTSON, PhD Graduate Advisor in Art History 901.678.2941 E-mail: falbrtsn@memphis.edu I. The Department of Art offers the Master of Arts degree with a major in Art History and concentrations in Egyptian Art and Archaeology, the Arts of Africa and the African Diaspora, or General Art History; and the Master of Fine Arts with a major in Art and concentrations in Ceramics, Graphic Design, Painting, Printmaking/Photography, or Sculpture. The Department of Art is a fully accredited institutional member of the National Association of Schools of Art and Design. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MA Degree Program Program objectives are: (1) equip students with a specialist knowledge in a specific field of art and visual culture; (2) practical application of critical analysis of the major theories and documents of art history to individual research; (3) field opportunities through museum internships or archaeological excavations; (4) ability to present research in a clear and persuasive format. A. Program Admission For Fall semester admission with assistantship, completed materials must be received at the University by February 15. Applications received after April 1 cannot be guaranteed consideration for the Fall semester. For Spring semester admission, the deadline is November 1. For the concentrations in the Arts of Africa and the African Diaspora and General Art History, an undergraduate course in each of the major areas of art history is desirable: American, ancient, medieval, renaissance, baroque, and modern. For the concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology, an undergraduate major in Egyptology, art history, anthropology, history, classical studies, or archaeology is desirable. If, after evaluation of the student’s transcript, the art history faculty perceives a deficiency in these areas, the student may be required to successfully complete courses that will not count toward the Master of Arts degree. A letter of intent, explaining the applicant’s motivation and objectives in pursuing a graduate degree in art history. A sample of undergraduate writing, preferably in art history. Two letters of recommendation, at least one of which should be from a college faculty member who knows the student well. B. Prerequisites for Admission to Degree Candidacy The student shall apply for admission to degree candidacy upon the completion of 18 semester hours of graduate work. All candidacy requirements listed below must be satisfied before registering for more than 18 hours of coursework at the graduate level. To be approved for admission for candidacy, the student shall have: A grade point average of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale. Fulfilled all departmental prerequisite requirements. A planned degree program that meets all departmental and graduate school requirements. Pass Qualifying Examinations Foreign language translation exam: The language is usually French, German, Italian or another research language appropriate to the student's field of study, to be approved by the Graduate Academic Advisor. For a concentration in Egyptian Art and Archeology, French or German is preferred. The foreign language exam will consist of a 300-500 word passage chosen by a faculty member and must be translated within a two-hour period. Two additional attempts are allowed. Image Identification Exam: For a concentration in General Art History or the Arts of Africa and the African Diaspora, the examination covers works of art and visual culture from various regions and time periods, ancient to modern. For a concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology, the test covers key monuments of ancient Egyptian art and an entry-level examination in Middle Egyptian. The student must establish a history of satisfactory ratings in periodic review, a semi-annual evaluation of each student’s general level of achievement by all area graduate faculty. Two unsatisfactory ratings will result in dismissal from the program. Forms are available in the Art Department Office. Students with assistantships are required to take 9 hours each semester, 3 of which may be chosen from ART 7880 or 7881. C. Thesis Comprehensive Exam Before progressing to the thesis stage, normally by the end of the third semester, students pursuing a concentration in the Arts of Africa and the African Diaspora or General Art History must sit for a written exam. One month prior to the test, students receive from the faculty five questions that they must research and prepare to answer in well-organized, scholarly essays. The subject areas of these questions are based both on the courses the student has taken in the graduate program as well as his or her specified field of study. One theory question will be included among the five. For the exam, two questions from the five are chosen by the student's primary advisor and must be answered within a timeframe of two hours. For students in Egyptian Art and Archaeology, a written exam will be given prior to the thesis defense. D. Program Requirements A total of 30 semester hours including ARTH 7996 thesis. The completion of ARTH 6123 or 6166 and ARTH 7130. A minimum of 18 semester hours in art history (not including the required ARTH 6123 or 6166, 7130 or any hours in ARTH 7996).Up to 6 hours of elective credit outside the field of art history, including ARTH/ANTH 6381, 6660, 6661, 6662, 7661, 7662,may be selected with the permission of the advisor. Twenty-one semester hours of 7000 level courses, including no more than 3 credit hours for the thesis. NOTE: Students should consult with their academic advisor as to the required and recommended courses appropriate to their area of concentration. Satisfactory completion of the qualifying examinations Satisfactory completion of the Thesis Comprehensive Exam An acceptable thesis and oral defense NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write the thesis. Graduate Assistantships. Students with assistantships are required to take 9 hours each semester, 3 of which must be from ART 7880 or 7881. Assistantships are renewed based on the following: Students must attain the required grade point average (3.4 in Egyptology, 3.0 otherwise) and maintain a good record in their assistantship work assignments. Students must make satisfactory progress toward the degree. In order to maintain satisfactory progress toward the degree during the first two semesters of study, the student must: pass the qualifying exam administered by the concentration, and take the foreign language translation exam. Students who fail to successfully complete these examinations by May 1 of the Spring semester will not receive a high priority for assistantship renewal for a third semester of study. III. MFA Degree Program Program objectives are: (1) professional studio competence as exemplified by a significant body of work; (2) professional competence in the dissemination of knowledge, including logical and clear written and verbal expression of ideas in teaching contexts; and (3) development of skills for critical and analytical reasoning as a practicing art professional. A. Program Admission Portfolio: Approval by the area graduate committee of the applicant’s creative work as specified below: Graphic Design: 20-30 images in a powerpoint presentation, of original and/or printed works. Submission of original work may be requested. Ceramics, Painting, Printmaking/ Photography, and Sculpture: 20-30 images in a powerpoint presentation, of work mainly in the applicant’s concentration area plus some slides of drawings and optional other media. Include additional views of 3D pieces. Submission of original work might be requested. Letters of recommendation: Letters from two persons familiar with the applicant’s creative activity but who are not members of the area graduate committee. If applying for a teaching assistantship, each recommendation should contain reference to the applicant’s teaching ability. Graphic design applicants are required to submit two letters of reference. Statement: A brief, personal statement of professional ambitions, intended concentration area, other special creative interests, and outline of previous professional experience. Please include current and permanent e-mail address, mailing address, and phone numbers. Deadline: All University and Department of Art MFA application materials are due November 1 for Spring admission and February 15 for Fall admission and assistantship consideration. Address: Send images, work, letters of recommendation, and statement to: Coordinator of Graduate Studies Department of Art The University of Memphis Memphis, Tennessee 38152 Deficiencies: Students may be admitted but required to complete undergraduate prerequisites or otherwise correct deficiencies. Students with assistantships are required to take 9 hours each semester, 3 of which may be chosen from ART 7880 or 7881. Eligibility for assistantships is based on students receiving a positive graduate review. B. Program Prerequisites Previous education and experience: Normally admission to the graduate program will require an undergraduate major in the applicant’s concentration area. (See concentration areas listed above.) A baccalaureate degree from an accredited institution is required with not less than 70 semester hours of art, of which 12 hours should be in art history and 18 hours (24 hours for Graphic Design) must be in the concentration studio courses. Exceptions to the above requirements will be considered, however, when the portfolio and professional experience warrant it. Transfer credit: Any applicant who holds an MA degree in studio art from another institution may transfer up to a maximum of 30 semester hours credit in art earned for that degree to apply toward the MFA degree. C. Prerequisites for Admission to Degree Candidacy The student shall apply for admission to degree candidacy during the semester in which the student completes 30 hours of graduate work. To be approved for admission to candidacy, the student shall have: A grade point average of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale, Removed all departmental prerequisite requirements, A planned degree program that meets all departmental and graduate school requirements, and Established an overall history of satisfactory ratings in periodic review (a semi-annual evaluation of each student’s general level of achievement by a committee of area graduate faculty) and be approved for candidacy by that committee. D. Program Requirements A total of 60 semester hours, including a thesis of 6 semester hours in the student’s area of concentration. A total of 36 semester hours of studio art, excluding the thesis, with a minimum of 24 semester hours in the student’s area of concentration. Forty-two semester hours of 7000 level courses. A total of 9 semester hours in art history. A total of 9 semester hours of electives. Students with a concentration in graphic design are required to take at least 12 semester hours of ART 7040 and 7240 combined. Residency requirement for Graphic Design: The student must commit to full-time study for a minimum of two successive semesters after admission to concentration to fulfill the residency requirement. Students from the concentrations of Ceramics, Painting, Photography, Printmaking, and/or Sculpture must enroll in Art 7651 (1 hour) when also enrolled in a 6000 or 7000 level studio course. Satisfactory grade on a written comprehensive examination, with follow-up oral examination at option of examining committee. Thesis (exhibition) to be approved by a faculty committee with the member under whom the thesis was prepared as chair. For graphic design candidates, a written thesis accompanied by appropriate visual documentation is required. IV. Interdisciplinary Graduate Certificate Program in Museum Studies (administered jointly by the Departments of Anthropology and Art). A. Program Admission Students currently admitted to a graduate program at the U of M or another university or students holding a graduate degree may apply for admission. For students enrolled in a graduate program, a minimum GPA of 3.0 is required for admission. In rare instances, a student who has completed an undergraduate degree program but who has not completed a graduate degree nor been admitted to a graduate program may apply and will be considered on an individual basis. All students not currently admitted to a graduate degree program at the U of M must also apply to the Graduate School for admission as a non-degree student. In order to continue in the program, students must maintain at least a 3.0 GPA. To apply, students submit: transcript of undergraduate degree program and transcripts of prior and current graduate study; three letters of recommendation; and a letter describing reasons for wishing to take a graduate certificate in the area of museum studies and how the program corresponds with prior experience and anticipated career plans. Inquiries can be directed to Dr. Leslie Luebbers, Director of the Art Museum ( lluebbrs@memphis.edu) or Dr. Linda Bennett, Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences ( lbennett@memphis.edu ). B. Program Requirements A minimum of 18 credit hours is required. Six of the 18 hours will be met by completion of two core courses: ANTH/ARTH 7661 Museum Practices and ANTH/ARTH 7662 Museums and Communities. Six elective hours will be selected in consultation with the Admissions and Advisory Committee. Except for unique circumstances, students in the Anthropology and Art History graduate programs must take at least three elective hours outside of their major department. Two three-hour internships (ANTH/ARTH 7669 Museum Internship) are required. Each internship site will be chosen in consultation with the Admissions and Advisory Committee. For those students working in a museum or other appropriate community site, three of the internship hours may be replaced by a third elective course. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .