#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/chemistry.pdf
TENURE AND PROMOTION GUIDELINES DEPARTMENT OF CHEMIS TRY THE UNIVERSITY OF ME MPHIS APPROVED : 05/ 10/20 12 1. Overview a. All candidates applying for tenure and/or promotion must meet department, college, and university criteria in effect at the time of the applica tion. Submitted dossiers must comply with college and university requirements. b. The mission of the Department of Chemistry is to provide the citizens of Tennessee with access to the methods, theory, and tools of modern chemical science at a credible academi c level. c. Chemistry faculty will be expected to make some contribution in all three traditional academic areas of teaching, research, and service. The level of effort in each area, and its weighting in tenure and promotion decisions, will not be expected to be equal, but will be determined in consultation with the Department Chair during the annual planning process. d. When a new faculty member is hired by the Department of Chemistry, the Chairman of the Department will appoint a tenured member to act as mentor for him or her. It will be the mentor™s responsibility to help keep the candidate aware of University policies and procedures, tenure and promotion criteria, deadlines, changes, etc. 2. Annual Evaluation and Planning a. At the appropriate time during the Sprin g semester, all faculty prepare an annotated report of their activities during the current academic year, and a plan for the next year. Reports and plans are submitted to the Department Chair. b. Shortly thereafter, the Department Chair will convene a general faculty meeting to discuss the state of the depa rtment, and its strategic plan. Modification to department tenure and promotion policies and guidelines will be discussed if necessary (see section 8 below). c. The annual report of tenure -track faculty will be made available to the Tenure and Promotion Committee (T&PC, see below). In addition, the tenure -track faculty will give a brief presentation on the progress towards t enure and promotion to the T&P C ommittee and the Department Chair for informal discussion and feedback. d. The Department Chair will prepare a written evaluation and meet individually with tenure -track faculty to discuss their progress, evaluation, and future plans. 3. Mid -Tenure Review a. In the Spring of their third year, in addition to the normal annual review, tenure Œ track faculty will prepare a file (in the same format as a tenure application, see 1a) documenting their progress toward tenure, to be submitted by March 15. The mentor and two other members appointed by the T&PC will form a sub - comm ittee to evaluate the file and prepare a written report to be reviewed and finalized by the entire T&PC . The file and the written evaluation will be presented to the Department Chair by April 1. Department of Chemistry Tenure and Promotion Guidelines Approved: 05/ 10/20 12 Page 2 of 5 b. The Department Chair will review the file and evaluation, di scuss them with the candidate, and prepare an independent evaluation. Both evaluations will be forwarded to the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. 4. Criteria for Tenure and Promotion to Associate Professor: a. Demonstrated competency in teaching; eviden ce may include development and implementation of significant instructional methods or materials. Student evaluations are required for every section taught. Peer -evaluations of teaching by other faculty members and/or department chair are recommended . Candi dates, after consultation with department chair and/or teaching mentors, are responsible for request ing peer-evaluations. b. Demonstrated scholarly product ivity through refer eed journal articles and presentations at professional meetings that are indicative o f professional recognition of his/her research contribution . Patents* and l icensed intellectual properties are valued equally with refereed journal articles. c. Demonstrated persistent effort in securing external funding to support research and other scholar ly activities through submission of grant/contract applications as leading PI and/or co -PI. These submissions should include substantially revised applications that appropriately address reviewer comments and concerns. Sponsored research through funded gra nt proposals and contracts will be highly valued in the tenure and promotion decision. d. An e stablish ed academic research area, which may be narrow or broad . This research area must include independent research, but may also include collaborative research i n which the candidate makes an essential scholarly contribution. Scholarly contributions should be indicative that further professional development will result in national recognition. e. Evidence of effective professional service to the Department, Universit y, professional organizations, and/or community. Service may include participation in projects, committees , student recruiting, and other functions impor tant to the advancement of the Department and the University, but does not include teaching, research, and directing graduate students. 5. Criteria for Promotion to Professor: a. Demonstration of a continuing high level of research and scholarly productivity that denote national recognition is paramount. A consistent and significant recent publication record in refereed journals is required. Some other possible considerations may include: designation as the principal investigator of an externally funded research program; recipient of a special grant for distinguished scholars; significant record of invitations t o speak at national meetings or workshops; authorship of a textbook or monograph. Sponsored research through funded grant proposals will be highly valued in the promotion decision. b. Demonstrated continuing high level of competency in teaching. Student evalu ations are required for every section taught during the five years prior to the year of application. c. Evidence of continued contributions to projects, committees, student advising, and/or functions of the Department and University that establishes a campus -* Provisional pa tent applications will be considered equivalent to publications only during the year of intellectual property protection provided. The work in a provisional patent application should either be used as the basis for a regular patent application or a public ation after this one year period. Department of Chemistry Tenure and Promotion Guidelines Approved: 05/ 10/20 12 Page 3 of 5 wide reputation for professional accomplishments that have directly benefited the students and faculty of the Department and University, and/or a significant record of service to nationally recognized professional organizations. 6. Application Process: a. All c andidates for tenure and/or promotion will make their intentions known to the Chairman of the T&PC by May 1. At that time each candidate will receive a checklist of the documentation and timeline required by the T&PC. b. One Committee member acceptable to the candidate will be selected either by the candidate or T&PC Chairman in conjunction with the Committee. The Committee member will aid the candidate in preparing the necessary documentation for use by the Committee. c. At least six external reviewers will be c hosen by the T&PC from names submitted by the Department Chair, committee members, and the candidate. No more than three reviewers will be chosen from the candidate™s list, and no more than one review may be from the candidate™s mentors or collaborators. The candidate may also provide a list of no more than three potential reviewers to be excluded from consideration. The T&PC chair will contact potential reviewers so that at least six have been confirmed before July 1. The T&PC shall approve the text of let ters soliciting external reviews. In addition to reviewing the candidate™s application, each reviewer will be asked to submit a summary vita and complete a brief statement of any relationship to the candidate. d. Materials to be submitted to external examiner s should be provided to the T&PC Chair no later than July 1. The T&PC chair will distribute the materials to the examiners with responses due by September 1. The T&PC chair will ensure that at least five letters are obtained in time to be included in the c andidate™s file. e. The candidate will present the complete file to the T&PC chair by September 1. The committee will examine the file on each candidate and may acquire additional data if necessary. One or more members of the Committee may conduct unannounced class visitations. The file will be considered closed immediately prior to convening the meeting of the T&PC at which the vote will be taken. No materials may be added or removed after this time. 7. Committee Composition and Procedures: a. The Chair of the prev ious year™s T&PC will call a meeting of the Committee in April to elect a chair for the following year, and a representative to the College of Arts and Sciences tenure and promotion committee when necessary. b. The Department Tenure and Promotion Committee (T &PC) will consist of all tenured Associate and Full Professor faculty members who are eligible to vote. Only Committee members eligible to vote may attend meetings. The following tenured faculty members are not eligible to attend meetings: Department Chair , the candidate™s spouse. A quorum for the T&PC shall consist of two -thirds of the eligible faculty members. c. In cases of promotion, only those faculty members who hold rank equal to or above that to which the candidate aspires are eligible to vote. d. In the event that the Department has fewer than three faculty eligible for a T&PC, the Department Chair will recommend to the Dean appropriate faculty from related disciplines to constitute a committee of at least three members. e. The candidate must be discussed a t one or more meetings of the T&PC prior to the meeting at which the vote is taken. The candidate will be informed of the time Department of Chemistry Tenure and Promotion Guidelines Approved: 05/ 10/20 12 Page 4 of 5 and date of the meeting at which the vote will be conducted. After a final round of discussion, the vote will be conducted by sec ret ballot, tallied and recorded by the T&PC Chair. Absentee or proxy votes are not allowed. A final report shall be approved in a meeting of the T&P committee. The T&PC Chair will forward the report to the Department Chair, or to the Dean if the candidate is the Department Chair. The Department Chairman will inform the candidate of the recommendation and vote of the T&PC, and of his or her own independent recommendation. All materials will be forwarded to the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. 8. Modif ication of Tenure and Promotion Guidelines a. Ten ure and Promotion guidelines may be modified upon recommendations from the Department Chair and the T&P Committee, in response to departmental growth and change. In such case s, all tenured faculty (the T&PC and the department chair) will discuss and vote on revisions to tenure and promotion guidelines . b. Approved and revised T&P guidelines with clearly written revision dates will be distributed to all faculty members. Earlier versions of T&P guidelines will be archived for at least five years. Department of Chemistry Tenure and Promotion Guidelines Approved: 05/ 10/20 12 Page 5 of 5 Checklist for Files Submitted dossiers must comply with college and university requirements, and should include: 1. A current and complete curriculum vita in the accepted university format. 2. Narrative that outlines past and pre sent professional activities and future professional goals. The impact of these activities should be discussed. 3. Copies of papers that are in press or under review, and reprints of significant recent publications. 4. Information on publication outlets, i.e. w hether or not the journal is refereed; print or electronic; impact factors; and whether it would be designated regional, national, or international. 5. Title page, abstract, and budget for every proposal submitted, whether funded, under review, or not funded. 6. Complete student evaluations, and a "Record of Courses" form, validated by the Department Chair™s signature, listing term by term what courses were taught and the number of students enrolled in each. 7. A list of undergraduate and graduate research students supervised, and a brief summary of their accomplishments. 8. Any other evidence of teaching accomplishments, such as significant new instructional methods or materials. 9. Statement of service on committees, participation in local and national organizations incl uding offices held, judging science fairs, talks to civic organizations, contributions to advising students, special projects, and any other activity which might fall into the area of service. 10. Anything else that the candidate feels will strengthen his or h er case. Timeline Mid -tenure review (third year): March 15: File submitted to sub -committee chair. Tenure and Promotion: May 1: Notify T&PC chair of intention to apply. June 1: Provide lists of potential reviewers to T&PC chair. July 1: Provide materials for outside evaluators. This should include items 1-3 of the checklist. Sept. 1: Complete file due to T&PC chair.