#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/criminial_justice.pdf
TENURE AND PROMOTION CRITERIA DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINOLOGY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE I. INTRODUCTION The Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice recognizes teaching, scholarship, and service as the three areas of primary focus in the proces s of evaluating candidates for tenure and promotion. The Department acknowle dges that evaluation of faculty for tenure and promotion is a delicate matter; howeve r, such evaluation is necessary if the University of Memphis is to have a high qua lity faculty. Criteria should be stated as clearly as possible to eliminate unnecessary subjectivity. At the same time, it is recognized that some subjectivity is n ecessary in all pers onnel decisions. The departmental goal is simply to establish genera l expectations in the major areas of faculty performance so each faculty member may be aw are of the criteria employed in his/her evaluations. Although not every faculty member may be expected to excel in all areas, excellence in one area is expected and at least an acceptabl e level of performance should be demonstrated in all three areas of endea vor. Therefore, these criteria are viewed as guidelines for tenure and/or promotion and ar e not to be considered "absolutes." II. ANNUAL REVIEW The Department Chair evaluates all faculty me mbers annually and the results are used as a basis for decisions relating to tenure and promotion. Becaus e a faculty member's annual reviews and evaluations are a core part of the materials considered for the faculty member's tenure and promotion review, copies of these reviews and evaluations will be included in the tenure and/or promotion file. The Departme nt Chair shall counsel all probationary faculty, at least on an annual basis, during their probationary period. The annual review process has two parts. First is a review of the faculty member's accomplishments during the prior year, using the previously agreed-upon plan of activities for that year as a basis for evaluation. Second is establishing a plan of activities for the next year, or for a longer period when appropriate. The review will consider the faculty member's performance in all areas that further the mission of the University, including teach ing and advising/mentoring of students, research and scholarly activity, and Univers ity, professional, and/or public service. Evaluations will be formative (e.g., to impr ove teaching skills) as well as summative (e.g., to judge teaching skills). The Depart ment Chair will do reviews of untenured faculty members with input from the tenured fa culty. If the Chair and/or faculty member requests, one or more members of the tenur ed faculty may assist in the planning and evaluation process. The faculty member's accomplishments over the prior academic year are taken into account in the annual review. A two- or three- year period of activities will be considered as well, given the longer time frame inherent in many professional activities. The faculty member will submit a current university curri culum vita, along with the faculty activity report. Faculty are encouraged to append supportive documentation since the annual planning and evaluation report should be part of a cumulative process that culminates in a tenure and promotion file for untenured facu lty and for those coming up for promotion to Full Professor. Both the faculty member and the Department Chair shall obtain additional information from other departments when the faculty member is involved in interdisciplinary work within the University. Faculty planning, both short and long term, is a joint endeavor carried out by the faculty member and the Department Chair; the plan will take into account the departmental mission and academic freedom. Faculty planning, begun during the annual review process, will be finalized in a formal planni ng report. Faculty have the option of revising their initial plan prior to formalizing the final planning document. The Department Chair's signature on the planning report indi cates the appropriateness of the faculty member's plan. After the Department Chair has recorded his/her opinion on the annual evaluation, the Chairperson will confer with the faculty me mber, who may then comment on any aspect of the evaluation and attach any written comm ents he/she wishes to make. Full notice of the correction of any weaknesses revealed by an evaluation will be included in the faculty member's next annual review. III. MID-TENURE EVALUATION The Department of Criminology and Crimin al justice will conduct a major mid-term evaluation of untenured faculty in tenure-track positions. This evaluation will be held in the fall semester of the faculty member's four th year unless the faculty member negotiates a different arrangement with the Department Chair. Members of the Department Tenure and Promotion Committee and the Departme nt Chair will conduct this evaluation. The faculty member will present docume ntation of his/her contributions and accomplishments in the areas of teaching, scholarship, and service in accordance with Departmental, College, and University gui delines. The documentation should include "physical evidence" such as syllabi, student evaluations, and selected course materials to support teaching effectiveness; copies of published articles or books, or written reviews and evaluations by qualified peers to document unpublished, on-going scholarship; and documentation of service and outreach activities. These documents will be part of an updated file and will be reviewed by the De partment Tenure and Promotion Committee. The mid-term evaluation is designed to provi de faculty members with information about the status of their progress towards tenure and promotion. The format of the review is similar to that for tenure and promotion, but exte rnal letters are not required at this stage. The Department Tenure and Promotion Committ ee will provide a report to the Chair of the Department, who will also provide comments and then send the report to the Dean of the College. IV. CRITERIA FOR TENURE AND/OR PROMOTION Tenure-track faculty members shal l be appointed at the assistant professor level or above. Full-time faculty members receive one-year, renewable contracts during the probationary period, which is for a maximum of six year s. The Department Chair will recommend regular renewal of these contracts unless performance in teaching, scholarship, or service is unsatisfactory. Unsatisfactory teaching is indicated by a combination of such things as persistent, unexcused absenteeism, very low student evaluations of teaching performance, and frequent legitimate student complaints. A person who joins the Department lacking only completion of the dissertation for receip t of a doctorate and does not complete the same within one year thereby demonstrat es evidence of unsatisfactory scholarship. Unsatisfactory scholarship is also indicated by a low level of scholarly activity as listed in IV B of this document. Unsatisfactory service is demonstrated by the failure to carry out professional responsibilities that have been assigned by the Department Chair or other legitimate University author ity (Dean, Provost, President) during the academic year. As faculty members begin year six of a pr obationary period, assistant professors must make application for tenure and promotion; untenured associate professors must make application for tenure. (Exceptions to th e minimum probationary period may be made under special circumstances with Presidential approval; faculty me mbers should refer to the appropriate section of the faculty handbook for more information.) Faculty members with the rank of instructor are not eligib le for tenure. Faculty members who have not been promoted to associate professor a nd approved for tenure will not have their contracts renewed at the end of the probationary period. However, they will be rehired for the following year on a one-year, nonrenewable contract. Faculty may request that appropriate profe ssional experience count towards tenure and/or promotion. "Appropriate professional experience" is defined as serving full-time in a teaching or research appointment, which carri es faculty rank at the four-year college or university level, appropriate to the discipline of crimi nology and criminal justice. "Professional experience" would not include time spent on leave from such appointments, unless during that time the candi date holds a similar appointm ent at another institution, not including teaching assistantships. A. TEACHING EFFECTIVENESS Teaching is central to the pur poses and objectives of The University of Memphis and the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice. Teaching encompasses classroom instruction; course development; mentori ng students in academic projects including theses, testing, grading; and the professional development of the faculty member as a teacher. Mentoring students at all levels is an important aspect of teaching; creative and effective use of innovative teaching methods a nd curricular innovations is encouraged as evidence of pedagogical development. Neith er tenure nor promotion shall receive favorable consideration in the absence of clear, convincing, and continuing evidence of at least an acceptable level of teaching and a pot ential for continued development. However, while excellence in teaching is a strong recommendation for both tenure and promotion, it cannot be considered in isolation from scholarship and service. A candidate for tenure and/or promotion is expected to: Demonstrate that he/she is an effec tive teacher (student evaluations shall be an integral part of demonstrating that one is an effective teacher) and that he/she is likely to remain so throughout his/her career. Since evaluation of teaching is a qualitativ e process, multiple sources of evidence, including student evaluations of all classes, will be employed. The candidate should organize, record, and exhibit evidence of his/ her teaching efforts in such a manner that colleagues are able to share in his/her insigh ts, procedures, and contributions to the area of teaching. There should be available for reference and review by the Department Chairperson and the Departmental Tenur e and Promotion Committee substantial evidence documenting the candidate's profic iency as a teacher. The candidate should direct attention to the following areas to dem onstrate that he/she is an effective teacher: 1. Command of the subject matter. 2. Ability to organize subject matter and present it in logical and meaningful ways. 3. Performance in relating eff ectively to students; and 4. Interest in teaching. Candidates are also responsible for providing other evidence of teaching effectiveness, such as teaching awards received; development of innovative course designs which are disseminated in forms other than journals , books, technical reports; updated syllabi; creation of computer software and audiovisual materials. Each candidate for tenure and promotion may supply any additional data he /she deems appropriate as evidence of teaching performance. In addition to other evidence that the candidate might choose to provide, the candidate must furnish students™ assessments (either the SIRS or another university approved assessment instrument) from all classes, including summer school, taught each year during the probationary period. The candidate must place the results of these evaluations in his/her tenure and promotion application. If evaluations for any class taught during the probationary period are omitted, the candidate must explain the reason for the omission. B. SCHOLARLY PRODUCTIVITY As a research university, The University of Memphis develops, integrates, disseminates, and applies knowledge. Faculty in the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice are expected to maintain on- going programs of basic and/or applied research appropriate to the discipline. Therefore, evidence of scholarly productivity is an essential criterion for tenure and promotion. Scholarly contributi ons include peer-evaluated, discipline-appropriate works such as books, journal articles, book chapters, and funded proposals written within the years prior to applying for tenure and promotion. Expectations for scholarly productivity are related to the percentages of faculty time devoted to research. A candidate for tenure and/or promotion is e xpected to meet the following criterion: Demonstrate evidence of sustained pr oductivity of high quality scholarship. Scholarship in criminology and criminal jus tice is divided into four subcategories: application, inquiry, integration, and scholarship of teaching. Individual faculty members are not expected to contribute in all four subcategories of scholarship. Some overlap in the meaning of the four categories is inevit able, and a particular scholarly contribution may fall under more than one subcategory. These subcategories are as follows: 1. Application adds to existing knowledge in the process of applying intellectual expertise to the soluti on of practical problems and results in a written work shared with others in the areas of criminology and criminal justice. The scholarship of application includes developing content-based seminars and workshops , providing technical assistance, and evaluating public and private sector institutions, processes, and policies. These works become part icularly noteworthy for tenure and promotion purposes when such activi ties result in written works that are widely disseminated a nd open to peer review. 2. Inquiry involves rigorous investigation aimed at the discovery of new knowledge within criminology and crimin al justice. It often serves as the basis for other forms of schol arship and results in scholarly publications, funded research, and presentations at professional meetings. 3. Integration makes meaningful connec tions between previously unrelated topics, facts, or observations, such as cross-disciplinary synthesis or an integrative framework within a discipline that results in a publication or presentation in a suitable forum. 4. Teaching scholarship focuses on transforming and extending knowledge about pedagogy, including appropriate textbooks or educational articles in criminology and criminal justice. Innovative contributions to teaching, if published or presented in a peer-reviewed forum, also constitute scholarship of teaching. However, the "scholarship of teaching" is not equivalent to teaching. Classroom teaching and staying current in one's field are not relevant criteria for evaluating faculty on the "scholarship of teaching." In all of the above, demonstr ation of quality is the responsibility of the candidate. Citation of other works that reference the candidate™s research or sc holarly activity is one indication of the quality of the candidate™s wo rk as is documentation of the prestige of professional journals or favorable reviews of books or other scholarly activity. C. SERVICE Service is a term encompassing a faculty me mber's activities in one or more of the following areas: service to the University, service to the profession, and outreach to the community. These activities may overlap in some instances. All faculty members are expected to perf orm basic citizenship service within the University. These activities include, but are not limited to, serving on Departmental committees, advising and/or mentoring stude nts, and participating in college and University committees. Mentor ing of students is considered by the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice an important aspect of University citizenship. Some faculty members may accept more extensive ci tizenship responsibilities, such as a leadership role in the Faculty senate; memb ership on a specially appointed task force; advisor to a University, College, or Departme ntal student organization; and membership on a University, College, or Departmental committees. Service to the profession includes association leadership, journal editorships, article, book, and grant proposal review; guest lecturing in other departments or institutions; and other appropriate activities. Outreach, or service to the community, primar ily involves sharing professional expertise with the wider community and should direc tly support the goals and mission of the University and Department. Community outreach is considered important given the urban mission of the University of Memphis. Unde r some circumstances, outreach may include nonprofessionally related activities outside the University. In evaluating candidates with respect to service, the following factors will be considered: 1. Percentage of faculty time/effort devoted to service activities; 2. Functional roles in which the service is rendered (particularly if the candidate has assumed a leadership position); 3. Levels of professional competence empl oyed (areas of specialization shall be considered); and 4. Monographs, reports, evaluations, program designs, etc., produced (as a method of demonstrating what has been done). Demonstration of the quantity and quality of se rvice is the responsibility of the candidate. V. CRITERIA FOR TENURE AND PROM OTION TO ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR The University of Memphis requires the same guidelines for tenure as for promotion to associate professor. Thus, assistant professors in Criminology and Criminal Justice will normally be considered for tenure and promotion to associate professor at the beginning of their sixth year. Any variation from this timetable must be negotiated with the Department Chair and Dean and approved by the President in advance of the candidate's application for tenure and/or promotion. No faculty member can be awarded tenure without me eting the eligibility requirements for associate professor or having already a ttained that rank. Promotion and tenure, when granted, will normally take effect at the beginning of the seventh year of appointment. A candidate for tenure and promotion to Asso ciate Professor is expected to meet the following criteria: 1. Possess the appropriate terminal degree fr om an accredited institution in his/her instructional discipline or related area. 2. Demonstrate that he/she is an effective teacher (student evaluations shall be an integral part of demonstrati ng that one is an effective teacher) and that he/she is likely to remain so throughout his/her career. 3. Demonstrate evidence of sustained pr oductivity of high quality scholarship. 4. Convince (by performance primarily) coll eagues that he/she will likely be a productive scholar throughout his/her career. 5. Established her/his proficiency in research, publication, and/or other forms of scholarly activities indicating substantial progress towards the attainment of a national reputation in her/his field. 6. Possess a minimum of five years of pr ofessional experience in the field of criminology and criminal justice. 7. Provide good Departmental and/or college and/or University and/or community and/or professional service. In all of the above, demonstra tion of quality is the responsibility of the candidate. VI. CRITERIA FOR PROMOTION TO PROFESSOR A candidate for promotion to Professor is expected to meet the following criteria: 1. Possess the appropriate terminal degree fr om an accredited institution in his/her instructional discipline or related area. 2. Demonstrate that he/she is an effective teacher (student evaluations shall be an integral part of demonstrati ng that one is an effective teacher) and that he/she is likely to remain so throughout his/her career. 3. Demonstrate evidence of sustained pr oductivity of high quality scholarship. 4. Convince colleagues that he/she will likely be a productive scholar throughout his/her career. 5. Possess a national reputation in the discipline. The faculty member should be recognized as a mature scholar who is an expert in her/his field and as an individual who has made important c ontributions to the advancement of knowledge in the discipline. 6. Possess a minimum of ten years of prof essional experience in the field of criminology and criminal justice. 7. Provide Departmental leadership in his/her specialty areas. 8. Provide extensive, high quality service to the Departme nt, college and university and some high quality service to hi s/her profession and the community. Note that promotion to professor is only aw arded to faculty who have demonstrated long term and high quality scholarship that ha s made a significant contribution to the discipline and earned the candidate a national reputation for excellence. Promotion to professor is not granted on the basis of one significant work nor made on the basis of longevity of work in the discipline. VII. APPLICATION PROCESS Candidates for tenure and/or promotion should familiarize themselves with the Department, College, and University Tenure and Promotion Guidelines. It is the responsibility of any faculty memb er applying for tenure and/or promotion to provide adequate evidence that he/she meet s the criteria for tenure and/or promotion. Each faculty member anticipating applying fo r tenure and/or promotion is advised to: 1. Study ways in which the three areas of teaching, scholarship, and service are most appropriately evaluated; 2. Discuss these points with the Departme nt Chair well in advance of his/her application for tenure and/or promotion; 3. Provide the Department Chair and Department Tenure and Promotion Committee with concrete eviden ce satisfying each criterion. Tenure track assistant professors are required to apply for tenure and promotion at the beginning of their sixth year, unless the Depart ment Chair and Dean ha ve agreed to prior arrangements for early tenure and promotion a pplication. To apply later than the sixth year requires written agreement by the Department Chair, Dean, and President. Individuals may apply for promotion to Full Pr ofessor at any time after the individual has ten years of relevant professional and/or academic experience in his/her field of expertise. It should be noted, however, that promotion to Full Professor is not based on years of experience but rather is based on evidence of high quality and long term scholarly achievement resulting in a national reputati on among scholars in the person™s field of expertise. Before applying for promoti on, the candidate should meet with the Department Chair to gauge the appropriatene ss of the application. All applicants for tenure and/or promotion should inform the Chai r in writing of the decision to proceed no later than the end of the Spri ng Semester in the year precedi ng the application process. This will enable the Chair to communicate with external re viewers and to forward them in a timely fashion all required materials for review. To apply for tenure and/or promotion, the f aculty member compiles a dossier containing all documents that the candidate believes will strengthen and support the application. Great care should be taken in the preparation of these supporting papers to insure that the dossier complies with Departmental, College, and University requirements. Candidates who are not sure what to include in their dossiers or how to organize the materials should seek help from the Department Chair and coll eagues, particularly those who have served on tenure/promotion committees. LETTERS OF EVALUA TION AND SUPPORT Outside letters of evaluation are required for all candidates applying for tenure and/or promotion and will be one basis for judging a candidate's published work or work in progress. Each candidate will provide the Department Chairperson a list of four to six recognized scholars in the candidate's areas of study who are outside The University of Memphis. The Department Tenure and Promoti ons Committee will also generate a list of four to six tenured scholars in the candidate's areas of expertise. The Chair of the Department will select from the two lists at least four persons (three of whom must be tenured scholars) to review the candidate's scholarly record. Once the reviewers have been selected by the Chair from the lists provided by the Department Committee and by the candidate, the Chair will contact the nomin ated external reviewers to determine if they are willing to review the candidate™s file and able to transmit an evaluation in a timely fashion. The reviewers should be se nt the candidate™s vita along with all published scholarly materials to be considered in the tenure and promotion application. These materials should be sent to the exte rnal reviewers in the summer, at least one month preceding the fall semester when the can didate applies, to insure the external reviewers have sufficient time to review the candidate™s materials. Individuals writing letters of evaluation must be informed th at the letters under Tennessee law are not confidential. No more than one external reviewer may be a major adviser, collaborator, or co-author of the candidate. Any prior professional relationship between the external reviewer and candidate should be made known in the candidate™s file. A brief statement detailing the external reviewer™s qualifications should also be included in the candidate™s file. The candidate™s dossier should also indicate whether the external reviewers were nominated by the candidate , by the Department Committee, or by both. If he/she desires, each candi date can solicit letters of s upport from individuals familiar with his/her work. These letters should be sent directly to the Department Chairperson for inclusion in the candidate™s file, wher e they will be noted as letters of support solicited by the candidate. VIII. DEPARTMENT TENURE AND PROMOTIONS COMMITTEE A. FUNCTION The function of the Department Tenure and Promotions Committee is to evaluate all tenure and promotion dossiers of Department al Faculty. The Department Committee shall assess the quality of each candidate™s contri butions and accomplishments in the areas of teaching, scholarship, and service, both duri ng the mid-term review and at the time of tenure and/or promotion. After voting on the merits of the application, the Committee sends forward the Committee™s evaluation and vote to recommend/not recommend the candidate™s application to the Department Chair. IMPORTANT: Once a candidate™s dossier has been evaluated by the Department Tenure and Promotion Committee, nothing may be added to or removed from it. B. COMPOSITION The Department Tenure and Promotion Committ ee shall consist of all tenured associate and full professors except the Department Chair, who may not serve on the Committee. Committee members may vote on an applicatio n for promotion only when the committee member holds an academic rank equivalent to or higher than the academic rank to which the candidate is seeking promotion. A spouse of a candidate will not be allowed to vote on the candidate™s application for tenure and/or promotion. The Committee for each candidate shall consist of at least three faculty. If there are fewer than three committee members eligible to vote for any candidate, the Head of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy sh all, in consultation with the Chair and Department Committee, appoint a sufficient number to bring the Department Committee to three for any candidate. C. PROCEDURES At the first Department Meeting of the academic year, members of the Department Tenure and Promotion Committee will elect th e chairperson of the Department Tenure and Promotion Committee. The Chairpers on shall be elected by members of that Committee for a term of two years. A quorum sh all consist of two-thirds or more of the Committee membership eligible to vote on a given motion. A quorum must be present in order for the Committee to convene and carry on its business. In order to vote on tenure or promotion, a member of the Committee must have (1) participated in examination of a candidate's credentials and (2) taken part in the committee discussion of that candidate. Department members sitting on promotion and tenure committees at different levels of the process (Department, College, or Univer sity) will vote at the Departmental level. Applications will be grouped and acted upon in the following order: (1) Tenure, (2) Associate Professor, and (3) Professor. With in each group, applicants will be considered in alphabetical order. After each candidate's application has been reviewed and discussed, a vote will be taken by secret ballot. No ballo ts will be counted until all applicants have been voted on. It will be the responsibility of the Committee to provide a written statement summarizing the reasons for th e Department Committee's recommendation on tenure and/or promotion to be appended to each candidate's application. If there are negative votes without any negative points raised during the discussion of the candidate™s credentials, the absence of negative comments should be noted in the Committee™s report. If one or more members of the Committee re quest, a minority report shall be forwarded to the Department Chair. The ballots cast fo r tenure and promotion shall be kept by the Chairperson of the Committee for a period of one year. IX. DEPARTMENT CHAIR After the Department Tenure and Promotion Co mmittee has returned the applications and supporting papers along with its recommendation and the reasons for those recommendations, the Department Chair will review the Department Committee™s recommendation but will make an independent evaluation of all the information in the candidate™s file. The Chairperson will then make a recommendation and, in cases involving promotion only, meet with the candida te to transmit the recommendations that the Department Committee and Chair ha ve made and the reasons for those recommendations. The candidate may, at th is point, withdraw the application for promotion NOTE: If the Department Chair is being c onsidered for tenure and/or promotion, the recommendation of the Department Co mmittee will go directly to the Dean. X. MODIFICATION OF TENURE AND PROMOTION GUIDELINES The Departmental procedures can be modified only by a vote of the tenured faculty of the Department. At the first Department faculty meeting of the year, any tenured faculty member may propose a change in the Depart mental Tenure and Promotion Guidelines. While all Departmental faculty are encourag e to participate in discussions, only the tenured faculty shall vote to modify the Department guidelines. The vote may be by secret ballot, if requested by any member of the Committee. To modify the guidelines, a simple majority of all tenured faculty mu st vote for the proposed change. If departmental guidelines are modified within th ree years of a faculty member applying for tenure or promotion, the faculty member may choose to have the prior guidelines applicable for her/his tenur e or promotion process. Appendix A: Timeline for Tenure and Promotion Procedure Step Responsibility Action Due Date 1 Candidate Notify Department Chair in writing of intent to apply for tenure and/or promotion. May 1 2 Candidate and Chair Independently develop a list of potential external reviewers. May 15 3 Chair Finalize list of ex ternal reviewers. June 1 4 Candidate Develop packet of research materials and vitae to submit to external reviewers. June 1 5 Chair Send letter, candidate™s materials, and Department T & P Guidelines to June 15 reviewers. 6 Candidate Complete tenur e and/or promotion file (teaching materials and college forms.) September 15 7 Chair Establish file of external reviewers assessments/recommendations September 15 8 Department T&P Committee Independently review file and recommendations and provide recommendation with justification. Sept/Oct. 9 Chair Independently review file and recommendations and provide recommendation with justification. Oct College and University timelines will be established by the College of Arts and Sciences and by the Provost™s Office.