#http://www.memphis.edu/uofmonline/atozlist/faq.php
FAQs - UofM Online - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Online Programs Orientation Online Readiness Resources About AtoZ List Home UofM Online A to Z List FAQs Frequently Asked Student Questions How do online courses work? What computer equipment will I need to succeed in an online course? When do I have access to my online course sites? How do I activate or change my UofM email account? What courses will I have to take? May I enroll as a part-time student? May I take some courses without declaring a degree or major? Will financial aid, or military tuition assistance apply to an online program? Do I have to get the required immunizations as an online student? May I apply online? How do I purchase textbooks for my online class? What do I do next? How do online courses work? There are several course formats for online courses, but all of our courses are web-based. You will need a computer and a high-speed internet connection to access your courses. There are two different kinds of online courses: UofM Online are developed and taught by University of Memphis faculty for University of Memphis students. They are available via our eCourseware site at elearn.memphis.edu, and you will use your UofM UUID and password to log in. These courses have section numbers that start with a M. A few UofM Online courses may require you to be online at a particular day and time, or you may be required to attend on-campus class meetings or orientations. Be sure to read all footnotes when enrolling in online classes so that you will know exactly what is required of you. What computer equipment will I need to succeed in an online course? Please review our list of Technical Requirements . When do I have access to my online course sites? The University of Memphis eCourseware site goes live at midnight on the first day of classes for the term. This means that at that time, you can access course sites for any course in which you are enrolled. Access is restricted on the first Monday following that semester's commencement. How do I activate or change my UofM email account? Accessing your UofM email account regularly - and beginning at least a week before classes begin each semester - is an important responsibility for each student. All new students should receive a letter from the Registrar giving them a username and temporary password to set up their email accounts. Current students who want to change their password, forward their UofM email to another account, or set up a vanity account (e.g., jane.doe@memphis.edu) can do so at . You will need your NetID and current password to log in. If you should have problems with email, please contact the UofM Service Desk at 901.678.8888 or at umhelpdesk.memphis.edu. You can also access IT-related information at . What courses will I have to take? Each program is tailored to the specific courses required to meet the appropriate guidelines and minimum requirements of the specific degree program. You should contact the departmental advisor in your major department for degree program details. If you are non-degree seeking or do not know who your advisor is, please go to . May I enroll as a part-time student? Yes. May I take some courses without declaring a degree or major? You can only take a certain number of hours as a non-degree seeking student to have them apply toward a degree. Review the University of Memphis Undergraduate Catalog for complete requirements. For information on non-degree status as a graduate student, please refer to the information on the Graduate School website. Will financial aid, or military tuition assistance apply to an online program? Yes, financial aid and military assistance can be applied to any online program. UofM Online programs follow all University of Memphis guidelines for fee payment. Do I have to get the required immunizations as an online student? Full-time students enrolled only in online courses can request an exemption for immunization requirements. Students must complete an exemption request provided through Student Health Services. Without an approved exemption request or documentation of current immunizations, students will be restricted when attempting to register. May I apply online? Yes, all interested students are encouraged to submit your application online. How do I purchase textbooks for my online class? For UofM Online courses, you will log into the portal and select the Student tab. Select your term and follow the prompts. Alternatively, you can go to and enter the requested information. What do I do next? Each semester, you will receive an email from the Provost's office with explicit instructions on when and how you can access your online course. It is your responsibility to log into your online course(s) on the first day of class. UofM Online News University of Memphis Online Master's Program is Ranked Among the Best in Nation by ACO. UofM Online Undergraduate Programs Click to View the Fully Online Undergraduate Degree Programs offered at the University of Memphis UofM Online Graduate Programs Click to View the Fully Online Graduate Degree Programs offered at the University of Memphis Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .