#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/judaic_studies.pdf
BORNBLUM JUDAIC STUDIES TENURE AND PROMOTION GUIDELINES (18 October 2002) I. OVERVIEW All candidates for tenure and/or promotion in J udaic Studies must meet with departmental, college, and university eligibility criteria at the time of application. Because teaching is an essential function of the University, an outstanding record in this area is an important consideration. With regard to scholarship and research, both quality and quantity of publications will be a consideration. A third major are of evaluation is service to the Department, College, and University; to professional organizations; and to the community. In the evaluation of the candidateôs teaching, any or all of the following may be considered: 1. Evaluation, through mutually arranged classroom visitations, by members of faculty. 2. An evaluation by students, through an approved questionnaire; results of this questionnaire will not be used as the sole measure of a teacherôs teaching effectiveness, but as corroborative evidence in conjunction with other materials. 3. Inspection of course outlines and examinations, which are required of all members of the department and are on file with the department. The outlines are to be used to judge the breadth and limits of the course and the demands imposed by the required and recommended readings and by the examinations. 4. Receipt by the teacher of an award for teaching excellence. 5. Grade distributions. In addition to the above, efforts in curriculum development shall also be considered, including the creation of courses, especially those of university-wide importance such as general education courses, and well as courses falling under the aegis of departments other than Judaic Studies. In all evaluation of scholarship and research, judgment by peers, both at the University and in the broader profession, is the primary consideration. In each case of tenure and/or promotion, the candidateôs dossier must include a minimum of four letters from outside evaluators (for more details on these letters, see Part VII). Evidence of scholarly achievement will be based on publication of books and articles in refereed journals; editing books, journals, and other publications; presentation of papers at professional meetings; publication of book reviews; participation in colloquia, symposia, etc.; supervision of theses and dissertations of graduate students; and receipts of research grants. Since not all publications are equivalent, some differentiation will be made among them. In general, books representing a major scholarly contribution to oneôs field constitute evidence of greater scholarship than articles. However, it is recognized that, at times, major interpretative articles published by journals of national or international reputation, may constitute evidence of greater scholarly achievement than a book descriptive of a very narrow subject. In general, breadth and depth of scope are to be preferred to narrowness. The research effort required will also be an important criterion in evaluating publi cations. Some fields of research and certain 2specializations within broad fields may pose greater difficulties to the scholar and may be more demanding in terms of time required for the completion and publication of a given project. Books authored will be given more weight than books edited. In determining the quality of work, published reviews of the work will be considered, and if necessary, outside professional opinion will be solicited directly. For example sustained critical engament with texts, concepts, historical and/or literary trends is deemed more valuable than simple descriptive works. The aforementioned factors will also be considered in evaluating journal articles. Since there is a great variety of journals, varying in content and quality, certain criteria will be taken into consideration which will enable the making of qualitative distinctions. To be sure, articles will be judged on their own meritsätheir conceptual framework, scope, depth, and contribution to the academic field. But the reputation and scope of the journal will constitute important criteria. In addition to publications, presentation of papers in professional meetings, participation in colloquia and symposia, oneôs service as an editor for scholarly journals will also constitute evidence of scholarship. The presentation of papers will ordinarily receive less weight than the publication of articles, and participation in colloquia and symposia less than the presentation of papers. As with books and articles, the scope and reputation of the sponsoring societies will be taken into account in evaluating all these evidences of scholarship. The category of service is defined in a variety of ways that relate to the needs of students, the Program, the College, the University, and the community. There are many service roles played by faculty members, but the following may be the most frequent: 1. Service to the University for which no reduction in teaching load is ordinarily granted, such as departmental committees, college committees, university committees, advisory committees, task forces, self-study committees, and Faculty Senate. 2. Service to the University, such as the direction of academic programs, for which a reduction in teaching load is granted. 3. Service to the profession such as serving as an officer in regional, state, national, or international professional groups; serving on editorial boards, or advisory boards of professional groups; membership and participation in professional organizations. 4. Service to the public such as contributing to social service agencies on local, state, national, and international levels; participating in public forums; giving addresses to public organizations relevant to the professions; service on boards of museums, schools, and community organizations. II. ANNUAL REVIEWS Each year the Director will meet with individual faculty members to discuss their progress toward tenure and/or promotion. This meeting will be separate from the Universityôs annual evaluations of all faculty and staff. The purpose of the review is to assist potential candidates in presenting the best possible case for tenure and/or promotion. III. MID-TERM REVIEWS 3Candidates for tenure will have a mid-term evaluation by both the Director and othe tenured faculty at the end of the faculty memberôs thir d year. The candidate will be responsible for submitting documentation concerning achievement in teaching, research, and service. Ordinarily a candidateôs application for tenure will be accompanied by an application for promotion to the rank of associate professor. Accordingly, the criteria for tenure and for promotion to associate professor are identical. Since application for tenure must be accompanied by letters of evaluation from at least four recognized scholars who are not connected with The University of Memphis, the applicant will be invited to submit a list of prospective outside evaluators, from which the Tenure and Promotion Committee may select up to three names. At least one and up to three names should be generated by the Committee. IV. CRITERIA FOR TENURE AND PROMOTION TO ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR In order to be tenured and promoted to the rank of associate professor, the candidate must meet the following criteria: 1. A minimum of five years of teaching experience at the rank of assistant professor or the equivalent. 2. Ph.D. in relevant field; graduate level training or equivalent in primary texts of the religious, historical, literary or intellectual traditions of Judaism and the Jewish people. 3. Demonstrated competence, interest, and improvement in teaching and advising students. 4. Training and research interests in his/her field which complement those of other faculty and fit into the anticipated needs of the program. 5. Demonstrated interest in and professional recognition for significant research and scholarship in his/her particular field. 6. Contributions in professional activities other than teaching and research, including servie on departmental, college, and university committees; community outreach activities; program promotion; curriculum development, and other activies. V. CRITERIA FOR TENURE AND PROMOTION TO FULL PROFESSOR In order to be promoted to the rank of professor, the candidate must meet the following criteria: 1. A minimum of six years at the rank of associate professor, or the equivalent. 2. Ph.D. in in relevant field; graduate level training or equivalent in primary texts of the religious, historical, literary or intellectual traditions of Judaism and the Jewish people. 43. Superior performance in teaching, mentori ng, and advising students, uncluding experince as a thesis advisor on either the undergraduate or the graduate level. 4. Continued interest in and professional recognition on the national level for research and writing in his/her particular field. 5. Evidence of sustained scholarly productivity since the time of appointement to the rank of associate professor. 6. Evidence of a reasonable expectation of continued scholarly productivity in the future. 7. Contributions in professional activities other than teaching and research, including servie on departmental, college, and university committees; community outreach activities; program promotion; curriculum development, and other activies. VI. APPLICATION PROCESS Candidates who wish to be considered for tenure and/or promotion in a given fall semester must notify the Director by April 15 prior to that seme ster. Notification must be in writing and must indicate that the candidate is aware that the T&P dossier must conform to university and college requirements (information on the format for the dossier is available from the College of Arts and Sciences). Along with the letter of notification, the candidate must submit a list of names of people who are qualified to write external review letters; these names may include no more than one person who has served as a thesis advisor for the candidate or who has worked in close collaboration with the candidate on other scholarly projects. A minimum of four letters of external review will go into the dossier, no more than three of which may come from the candidateôs list; the T&P Committee will select at least one person to write an external review letter. The candidate must also submit to the T&P Committee a curriculum vitae written in the university format, summaries of student evaluati ons, and samples of publications. The candidate may also submit to the Committee anything else that he or she believes to be appropriate to his or her candidacy. The candidate will be subject to review for tenure and/or promotion in accordance with T&P guidelines in effect at the time of application. VII. COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONING OF DEPARTMENTAL COMMITTEE The Tenure and Promotion Committee will consist of all tenured full-time faculty in Judaic Studies, except the Director. Only faculty with a rank equal to or higher than that to which the candidate aspires will vote on the application. A minimum of four people will serve on th e T&P Committee at any given time; members of the Committee will elect a Committee Chair at the time of the Committeeôs formation. In the event that less than four faculty members within Judaic Studies meet the qualifications for voting membership, the Director of Judaic Studies, in consultation with the T&P Committee and the candidate, will develop a committee of no less than four voting members; at least three must be present for q quorum at all meetings. Faculty from outside of Judaic Studies must be: 1. Full-time faculty with a rank equal to or higher than that to which the candidate aspires; 2. Conduct scholarship and/or teaching in a disciplinary area similar to that of the candidate; and 53. Be from other units best positioned to evaluate the candidate. Both the candidate and the Judaic Studies Tenure and Promotion Committee will submit a list of potential outside members to the Director. The Committee and Director will develop the membership list. The Director will present th e proposed membership list to the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences and the rationale for the choice of committee members outside Judaic Studies. The outside membersô curriculum vitae may be included for this purpose. Even when the requisite number of tenured faculty is av ailable, the Director, in consultation with the Dean, the candidate, and the tenured faculty of Judaic Studies, may appoint additional committee members to the Tenure and Promotion Committee. The Director cannot be a member of the Committee and will not be present at Committee meetings. If a candidate who is up for promotion has a spouse on the T&P Committee, the spouse may not vote. Only Committee members who have reviewed the condidateôs dossier may participate in the evaluation and voting on the candidate. Upon completing their review of each case, members of the T&P Committee will vote by secret ballot. Once the vote has been cast, the candidate may add nothing else to the dossier. The Chair of the Committee will then tally the votes and submit the appropriate report and recommendation to the Director. The Director will then submit his independent report to the Dean and notify the candidate both of the Committeeôs recommendation and of the Directorôs recommendation; the Director is not bound by the Committeeôs recommendation. If the Director is the one who is up for tenure and/or promotion, then the Committeeôs report goes directly to the Dean. VIII. MODIFICATION OF T&P GUIDELINES The Judaic Studies faculty, in consultation with the Director, will review these guidelines every four years. Any proposed changes in the guidelines must be submitted to the Dean for his or her approval. IX. FLOWCHART Step Responsibility Action Due Date 1 Candidate Notify Director of intent to apply for tenure and/or April 15 promotion 2 Director Notify faculty to form T&P Committee and elect Late spring a chair 3 Candidate Submit a list of external reviewers April 15 4 T&P Committee Develop a list of external reviewers and contact May 15 Chair them to see if they will serve as reviewers 5 Candidate Develop packet of research materials and vitae May 15 to submit to external reviewers 6 6 T&P Committee Send candidateôs materials and T&P Guidelines May 30 Chair to external reviewers 7 Candidate Submit complete dossier, in accordance with September college and university guidelines, to T&P Committee 8 T&P Committee Evaluate all the matierials in the dossier, as well as September external review letters and other materials, and vote 9 T&P Committee Submit T&P Committee recommendation to the October Chair Director 10 Director Submit recommendation to the Dean, along with October dossier and any other appropriate materials