#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/ccfa/thea.php
THEA - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions THEA THEA (THEA) THEATRE Department of Theatre and Dance Holly C. Lau, M.F.A., Chair Room 143, Theatre and Communication Building NOTE: In addition to specific prerequisites, junior standing or permission of the department chair is a prerequisite for all 3000- and 4000-level courses in the Department of Theatre and Dance. NOTE: THEA 3601, 3602, 3603, 3604, 3605, 3606, 3607, 3608, and 3609 include preparation for and participation in departmental theatre productions. Individualized work is in the form of supervised laboratory situations. Running crews for season productions selected from participating labs. Each course may be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit with permission of the instructor. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: THEA 4210-19. Special Topics in Theatre. (1-3). Topics are varied and in the online class listings. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit when topic varies. THEA 1030 - Intro to Theatre (3) Experiential, conceptual, historical, and cultural study of theatre as a unique form of artistic expression and mirror of human experiences and values throughout the world; survey of constituent elements of a theatrical work and its major forms of expression. Attendance at live theatre productions required. [G] THEA 1561 - Introduction to Design (3) Historical and conceptual survey of basic elements of production, scenery, costumes, lighting, sound, and their relation to theatrical production process. THEA 2501 - Stage Movement (3) Introduction to movement as basic element of actor's craft; freeing the body/mind in order to understand. develop, recognize natural physical actions and rhythms and their application to stage. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 2503 - Basic Keyboard Skills/Actors (1) Study of basic keyboard ability to aid the comprehensive theatre professional. THEA 2504 - Singing for the Actor (3) Study of basic singing techniques. Specific emphasis will be placed on vocal aesthetics appropriate for the genre of American Musical Theatre. May be repeated for 9 hours credit. THEA 2511 - Intro Theatre Production (3) Lecture/laboratory covering all phases of craft skills and equipment involved in technical theatre production. Required lab work. THEA 2512 - Intro Theatre Graphics (3) Introduction to graphic communication processes of technical theatre. Mechanical drafting and CAD for scenery, properties, sound and lighting design; poster and program graphics. (Offered alternate years) THEA 2515 - Stage Makeup (2) Fundamentals of theatrical makeup through hands-on projects in basic stage contour and corrective, old age and character, transformation and fantasy, as well as specialty techniques, such as scars, wounds. Introduction to fundamentals of facial hair and wig application. Open to non-majors with permission of instructor. THEA 2530 - Acting/Non-Majors (3) Introduction to craft of acting; development of actor's individual potential through basic technique; performance of short scenes in class. THEA 2531 - Performance Fundamental (3) Synergy of text, voice, and movement in the development of the performer's instrument. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 2532 - Acting I (3) Development of character through dramatic action utilizing monologue, scene, improvisational work. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: THEA 2531, or permission of instructor. THEA 3200 - Musical Theatre Applied Voice (1-2) Individual vocal study with emphasis on musical theatre literature. May be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: THEA 2504 and 4224, or permission of instructor. THEA 3212 - Dynamics/Vocal Prod I (3) Interrelation of body and voice in performance; freeing the voice through posture related breathing; exploring phonation through body dynamics; using consonant energy in text. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 3213 - Dynamics/Vocal Prod II (3) Further explorations in the interrelation of body and voice in performance particularly pitch and resonance, consonant, tonal, and structural energies in text. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: THEA 3212, or permission of instructor. THEA 3412 - Directing Experiments (3) Theatrical image; creative exercises in imaginative use of space, time, and materials as they relate to stage direction and design. THEA 3505 - Movement Styles (3) Mime, theatre related to dance and period movement styles. PREREQUISITE: THEA 2501, or permission of instructor. THEA 3506 - Stage Combat (3) Rapier, dagger, and unarmed combat. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 3511 - Stagecraft (3) Lecture/laboratory includes theatre terminology, theatre forms, production organization, job descriptions, and safety; scenery construction to include painting, flat scenery, three-dimensional scenery, and introduction to steel materials. Required lab work. (Offered alternate years) PREREQUISITE: THEA 2511. THEA 3515 - Costume Construction (3) (Was 2513). Lecture/laboratory experience in the craft of garment construction, interpreting 2D theatre costume designs and executing them as stage worthy garments; patterning and construction basics, proper fit, comparative techniques and finishes; introduction to dye/paint and costume crafts. PREREQUISITE: THEA 2511, THEA 3602, or permission of instructor. THEA 3531 - Acting II (3) Development of partnership work within scenes. Two lecture hours, two studio hours per week. PREREQUISITE: THEA 2532, or permission of instructor. THEA 3532 - Acting III (3) Development of ensemble work within scenes. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: THEA 3531, permission of instructor. THEA 3551 - Audition Prep Performance (3) Exploration of audition process from material selection to final presentation; practical business information (resume, photo and job opportunities.) PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 3561 - Principles Scene Design (3) Application of principles to various theatrical conventions and configurations. (Offered alternate years) THEA 3562 - Principles Costume Dsgn (3) Techniques of costume design with special attention to character interpretation and design visualization. Open to non-majors with permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years) THEA 3601 - Mgmt/Publicity Prod Lab (1) THEA 3602 - Costumes Production Lab (1) THEA 3603 - Lighting Production Lab (1) THEA 3604 - Sound Production Lab (1) THEA 3605 - Scenery Production Lab (1) THEA 3606 - Props Production Lab (1) THEA 3608 - Dance Production Lab (1) THEA 3609 - Stage Management Lab (1) May be repeated for a maximum of 3 hours credit with permission of instructor. THEA 3610 - Stage Management Skills (3) Exploration of the basic tools and knowledge necessary to stage manage in the theatre. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 4209 - Advanced Scenic Production (3) Processes and techniques employed by theatre technicians and designers in the design, planning, and construction of scenery, structures and effects; survey of theatrical scenery types and traditional methodologies for problem solving. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 4220 - Acting/Musical Theatre (3) Exploration of techniques that allow the performer to fuse the act of acting and singing. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: THEA 2532, MUAP 1100, 1610, or equivalency exam/audition and permission of instructor. THEA 4221 - Stage Dialects (3) Transcription for International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA). Voice and dialect technique for conveying dramatic intention and character. (Offered alternate years) PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 4222 - Asian Theatre (3) History and theory of traditional and contemporary theatre forms in Asia; study of cultural and social history. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4223 - Musical Theatre Perform Prac (3) Study and practice in rehearsal and performance techniques in musical theatre production, including solo and group literature. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: THEA 4220, or permission of instructor. THEA 4224 - Principle/Music Theory/Theatre (3) Study of basic written music theory and aural skills to aid the comprehensive theatre professional. THEA 4441 - Performance Repertory (3) Group performance in dramatic and narrative theatre styles as well as dance and theatre movement. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit. THEA 4455 - Directing Narrative Theatre (3) Directing techniques for staging literary texts not originally written for the theatre. Includes script adaptation of short stories, poetry, and non-fiction prose. Directing projects required. (Offered alternate years) PREREQUISITE: THEA 4521, or permission of instructor. THEA 4457 - Vocal Style/Performance (3) Exploration of language based characterization as it evolves from structure and style of text. PREREQUISITE: THEA 3212, or permission of instructor. THEA 4501 - Adv Movement Styles (3) Study in advanced physical theatre styles. Varied semester topics: solo performance, performance art; fighting styles for period weapons, physical theatre techniques for theatre teachers, choreographers and directors. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit when content varies. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 4503 - Creative Dramatics (3) Basic techniques and theories for use of dramatization in elementary and secondary education. Includes socio-drama, dramatization of school subjects and daily concerns, and improvisation and creation of dramatic plays. (Offered alternate years). THEA 4514 - Theatre Renderng Technques (3) Materials and techniques for rendering theatrical space and scenic, costume, lighting, and properties design elements. (Offered alternate years). THEA 4515 - Scene Painting (3) Lecture/laboratory covering techniques of painting scenery for stage. PREREQUISITE: THEA 3561. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4516 - Technical Direction (3) Lecture/ laboratory for theatre technicians includes production organization and safety, engineering, rigging, materials control and supply ordering. PREREQUISITE: THEA 3511. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4521 - Principles of Stage Direction (3) Exploration of conceptual, planning and implementation skills of stage director from script interpretation to rehearsal and performance; attention to both traditional and non-traditional theatrical modes. Directing projects required. (Offered alternate years) PREREQUISITE: THEA 3412, or permission of instructor. THEA 4531 - Acting Styles (3) Development of acting styles as influenced by environments of historical periods. May be repeated for maximum of 6 hours credit with change of course content. Two lecture hours, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: THEA 3532, or permission of instructor. THEA 4532 - Mask Performance (3) Varied semester topics: Commedia dell'arte performance; creation and performance of the character mask; mask work based in physical theatre. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit when content varies. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 4541 - Internship (1-3) Supervised work in actual university, community, or professional theatre productions on internship basis. Credit varies with amount of time and responsibility involved. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 4548 - Musical Theatre History (3) Survey of the shaping forces, history, art and craft of American musical. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4549 - Theatre History (3) Shaping forces and theatrical forms from early civilization to present time; emphasis on Western culture. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4551 - Dramatic Literature I (3) Comprehensive survey of dramatic literature from Greeks to 20th century; emphasis on problems of production. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4552 - Dramatic Literature II (3) Comprehensive survey of dramatic literature from 20th century to present; emphasis on problems of production. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4553 - Individual Studies Thtr (1-3) For advanced student who wishes to do concentrated study in specific area of theatre. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 4554 - Visual History I (3) Design aesthetics of selected historical periods from ancient times through Victorian era as applied to theatrical design. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4555 - Scenic Technology (3) Lecture/laboratory using traditional and contemporary materials and scenic techniques including rigging, metals and welding, wood working, and plastics. PREREQUISITE: THEA 3511, or permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4556 - Lighting Technology (3) Study of technical principles that support areas of theatrical lighting design; instrumentation and equipment, electricity and electronics, control systems, operational and maintenance principles and procedures for stage electricians. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4557 - Costume Technology (3) Intermediate costume construction techniques employing both traditional and experimental methods for sewing; brings costume design from concept to reality. PREREQUISITE: THEA 3562, or permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4558 - Visual History II (3) Design aesthetics of selected historical periods from Victorian era through 20th century as applied to theatrical design. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4559 - Thea/African Diaspora (3) Exploration of selected playwrights and theatre practitioners of West and South Africa, Caribbean, and African-American descent. Course includes performance projects. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit when content varies. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4561 - Scenic Design Studio (3) Application of design principles to study of analysis, design process, and graphic skills; creative expression and portfolio development also stressed. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4562 - Lighting Design Studio (3) Lecture/seminar/practicum investigation of art of lighting design; script analysis, design approaches and methodologies, procedures and practices for working designers, cue techniques, design styles and forms, and criticism of lighting design. Research project work and staged scenes required. PREREQUISITE: THEA 4556, or permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4563 - Costume Design Studio (3) Theories and techniques of aesthetics of costume design as applied to contemporary theatre; script analysis for costume design; character and period interpretation through line, color, and fabric. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4571 - Playwriting (3) Theory and principles of writing plays for stage. Practice in writing either short or long play. May be repeated for maximum of 9 hours credit. (Offered alternate years) PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 4582 - Script Interpretation (3) Exploration of the script as blueprint for realization of artistic stage image. Special attention given to plot, structure, character treatment, and language style as they relate to performance, direction, and scenography. PREREQUISITE: major or minor in Department of Theatre and Dance. THEA 4591 - Theatre Management (3) Procedures and practices for stage management; theatrical production management; box office; publicity and promotion for theatre and performing arts; comparative study of commercial, educational, and amateur theatre operations. THEA 4592 - Theatre Architec/Facility Plan (3) Processes and techniques employed by theatre planners in design and construction/renovation of theatrical spaces and structures; survey of theatre forms, historical development of theatrical structures and spaces, programming methods and procedures, specification, renovation techniques, multi-use structure concepts, and consultation procedures and practices. (Offered alternate years) PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 4595 - Sound Technology (3) Technical principles that support areas of theatrical sound design; digital and analog equipment, audio signal theory and technologies, systems design, software, and operational principles and procedures for theatrical sound engineers. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4596 - Sound Design Studio (3) Lecture/seminar/practicum investigation of the art of theatrical sound design; script analysis, creative design processes and aesthetics, cue techniques, design styles and forms, procedures and practices for working designers and criticism of sound design. PREREQUISITE: THEA 4595, or permission of instructor. (Offered alternate years) THEA 4631 - Acting for Film and TV (3) Educational experience for actor in media of film and television. (Offered alternate years) PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. THEA 4982 - Honors Seminar (3) Intensive study of particular problems in theatre and dance. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 hours credit when topic varies. PREREQUISITE: permission department chair THEA 4999 - Senior Honors Thesis (3) Supervised independent research project. Open only to students enrolled in the Theatre and Dance Honors Program. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission department chair. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .