#http://www.memphis.edu/coe/online.php
Online - COE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Education About Departments Degrees Scholarships Research Alumni Faculty Home COE Online COE Online Information on Online Courses For students enrolled in any online class , you must log in to the University of Memphis eCourseware site at by the first day of the semester , unless otherwise indicated by the instructor. To access the course in eCourseware, you must have a valid Univ. of Memphis UUID (Universal User ID) and password. If you do not have a current UUID, you must come to the main campus Student Services and obtain a student ID card, then have your UUID account enabled. You will then be able to access and use memphis.edu email, eLearn, your UMDrive, etc. all of which you MUST access in order to participate in online courses offered by the University of Memphis. IMPORTANT REMINDER : Check your University of Memphis email often! Your online course instructor will communicate with you via your memphis.edu email ONLY . If you wish to forward your memphis.edu email to a different account, log in with your UUID at and follow instructions on Forwarding email. Online Self-Quiz: Are YOU ready to take a 100% online course? More than three "no" answers to the questions below would indicate potential difficulties in successfully completing an on-line course. Do I own or have consistent access to a computer with Internet access and email? Am I already comfortable with using the Internet as a means of communication and research? Am I self-directed, highly motivated, and self-disciplined? Can I read and follow detailed instructions on my own? Can I set a personal schedule and complete assigned work by the required dates? Do I try to solve problems and work through difficulties independently? Are my writing and communication skills better than average? Online/Web-Supported Courses eCourseware Login RODP Courses Login/Help Courses UofM Problems 678-8888 HelpDesk Ball Hall 307 Spectrum | RODP | Distance Education RODP Teacher Education Use Postoffice username/password for UofM WebCT College of Education Web-Supported Courses If you were directed here from Tigerweb Schedule then you are taking a web-supported/online class from UofM or Regents Online Degree Programs (RODP). Links to WebCT classes are above. COE instructors with class supported web pages are listed below. Visit these sites before class for handouts and announcements: Course ICL 7992 Title Master's Project CoE Online Degrees and Certifications Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Department Doctorate of Education (EdD) Instructional Design and Technology Master of Arts (MAT) in Teaching Secondary Education Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) Special Education Master of Science (MS) Instructional Design and Technology Master of Science (MS) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Master of Science (MS) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership - Library Information Specialist Endorsement Master of Science (MS) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership - Reading Concentration Graduate Certificate in K-12 Instructional Computing Applications Graduate Certificate in Autism Studies Leadership Department Doctorate of Education (EdD) in Higher &amp; Adult Education Concentration in Higher Education Concentration in Adult Education Master of Science Leadership Graduate Certificate in Community College Teaching &amp; Leadership Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research Master of Science (MS) Educational Psychology Apply to our Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Fall Deadline: July 1, 2015 (domestic); May 2, 2015 (international) Apply to our Masters and Doctoral Programs Earn your Masters Degree from any of our four departments or take your education to the next level with a doctorate degree. COE Online Earn a degree on YOUR time. Contact Us Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .