#http://www.memphis.edu/music/
Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Home Music A renowned music school at one of the largest universities in Tennessee. When you come to the School of Music at the UofM in Memphis, TN, you get the best of both worlds. You will learn, grow and receive personal attention from accomplished artist-scholars, but also have the benefits of being part of a large, world class-university. Our renowned program offers bachelor's through doctoral degrees in 29 areas of concentration, with the distinction of being Tennessee's only doctoral degree granting program in music . In a city as live-music-rich as Memphis, the music school is proud to present more performances than any other music organization in the Mid-South. We are setting the tone for creativity and excellence in music. music speaks here Every day we capitalize on the music innovation heritage of Memphis, TN. The School of Music has always attracted top talent and continues to cement our international reputation for excellence. The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music at the University of Memphis is a comprehensive school, known for our diversity and dedication to our role as a cultural and intellectual resource for the university, the city, and the wider musical world. In our teaching and research, we are deeply devoted to the preservation and growth of music as an art, as a craft, as a profession, and as a treasury of human wisdom. What's Happening Now The University of Memphis Opera proudly presents The Beggar's Opera, the story of the swashbuckling highwayman Macheath, chased by ladies looking for love and men looking for money. The production features an all-student cast supported by the University of Memphis Orchestra. November 20 at 7:30 pm and November 22 at 3:00 pm. Harris Concert Hall. The Southern Comfort Jazz Orchestra offers you two exciting opportunities to hear them perform on November 22 and November 24. On Sunday November 22 at 2:00 pm the ensemble hits the "Who's Making Music in Memphis" series at the Memphis Public Library. The program for this concert puts the spotlight on classic big band jazz. If you miss the Library concert, or even if you don't, meet us at the UofM Harris Concert Hall on Tuesday, November 24 at 7:30 for an encore performance. The holidays will be filled with music and memories as the School of Music ushers in the season. Performances by student ensembles will include old favorites and some new, original works. Wednesday, December 2, 12:30 pm, Harris Concert Hall. Admission is free. We've added a new section on our website just for alumni! . If you attended the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music, please visit the section to update your profile and see what's happening with other alumni. Read the latest version of The Bluenote , the School of Music newsletter. Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Follow the School of Music Online Twitter Facebook Contact Us Faculty Resources Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .