#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11429
Assistant Professor Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant Professor Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC442 Advertised Title Assistant Professor Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 003611 Category Full-Time Faculty Department Political Science Position Summary The department of Political Science at the University of Memphis invites applications for a tenure track position in Comparative Politics at the level of Assistant Professor. The position will start in the Fall, 2016, pending the availability of funds. Candidates must have the Ph.D. in hand by August 2016. We seek applications from candidates in all areas of comparative politics.Candidates must be able to teach undergraduate and graduate classes in comparative politics both on the ground and online and must show promise of excellence in research and teaching. Minimum Position Qualifications Candidates must have the Ph.D. in hand by August 2016. Special Conditions Posting Date 11/03/2015 Closing Date 01/04/2016 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range Salary is competitive and commensurate with qualifications and experience. Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Please submit a letter detailing current research interests and teaching experience, a curriculum vitae, a graduate transcript, a writing sample (dissertation chapter, published article or conference paper), a one page statement of future research plans, evidence of teaching potential, and email addresses for three professional references on-line at . Instructions to Applicant regarding references Please provide e-mail addresses for persons qualified to provide references. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Cover Letter Teaching Philosophy References List Unofficial Transcript Article Reprint 1 Optional Documents