#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/political_science.pdf
1 of 6 9/25/2003 TENURE AND PROMOTION GUIDELINES Department of Political Science I. Overview A. All candidates for tenure and/or promotion must meet with departmental, college, and university eligibility criteria in effect at the time of their application for tenure/or promotion. See the Faculty Ha ndbook for university tenure and promotion criteria: . B. Political science is th e systematic study of and re flection upon politics. What governments do or choose not to do affects a ll peoples™ lives in ma ny ways. Politics is the source of many goods enjoyed by millions of people, such as public order, good roads, and effective schools. It can also be the source of great evil. During the 20th century, regimes devoted to particular political beliefs murdered tens of millions of people. Political science includes the subfields of political theory, political behavior/methodology, American politics, co mparative politics and international relations. C. The department expects all faculty members to make contributions in teaching, service and research. II. Annual Review/Evaluation The department chair is responsible for conducting the annual review of faculty performance. In the annual review the depa rtment chair shall indi cate whether the faculty member is on track for tenure and/or promo tion. Annual reviews shall be linked to the tenure and promotion process as evidence of satisfactory or unsatisfactory progress. III. Mid-term Evaluation A. All tenure-track members of the de partment shall be reviewed during the spring semester of their third y ear of service or the fall semest er of their fourth year of service. The purpose of the mid-term evalua tion is to give the faculty member a clear picture of whether he or she is on track to receive tenure. The department chair and chair of the Tenure and Promotion Committee will pr ovide guidance to the candidate if he or she is not on track. This evaluation, based on requirements for tenure and promotion, shall provide information to the candidate on his or her progress. A written report of the evaluation shall be provided to the candidate and include any concerns, and what must be done to address those concerns. The committee's report, as well as one by the department chair, shall be forwarded to the dean. B. Procedure 1. Role of Tenure and Promotion Committee . Tenure-track faculty members shall notify the department chair of their intent to be reviewed by March 1 of their third year of service (or September 1 of their fourth year of service). The faculty member under review sha ll provide the Tenure and Promotion Committee a dossier by April 1 (or Oct ober 1). The Tenure and Promotion Committee shall read the dossier, conven e to discuss the candidate's progress toward tenure and meet with the candidate to provide feedback by April 15 (or 2 of 6 9/25/2003 October 15). The committee chair sha ll prepare a statement summarizing the committee's evaluation and forward it, along with the dossier, to the department chair by April 20 (or October 20). 2. Role of the Department Chair . The department chair shall review the candidate's dossier and meet with the candidate by May 1 (or November 1) to provide feedback on progress toward tenure. After the meeting, the chair will prepare an evaluation of the candidate's progress toward tenure and forward it to the dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. 3. The Dossier. Faculty under review sha ll submit evidence of teaching, research and service to the Tenure and Promotion Committee by April 1 (or October 1). The dossier shall meet a ll the requirements for a tenure and/or promotion dossier, with the exception of le tters submitted by outside reviewers. The candidate may not add or delete anything from the dossier following the departmental committee vote. College gui delines for completion of the dossier can be found at . A sample dossier can be found at the Provost's web site: du/~provost/forms/dossier.pdf . IV. Criteria for Tenure and Promotion to Associate Professor A. Length of service . The department shall consider all applications for tenure during the faculty member's sixth year of se rvice. Any credit for previous years of service at other institutions shall be clearly stated in the faculty member's letter of appointment. An application for tenure shall also be an application for promotion to the rank of associate professor. B. Appropriate degree . All applicants for tenure shall have a doctorate in political science or related discipline. C. Teaching . All applicants for tenure must exhibit success in teaching. Documentation of effective te aching must include summaries of the Student Instructional Rating System (SIRS) evaluations for every course taught at the University of Memphis. Candidates are encouraged to submit add itional evidence of excellence in teaching including peer evaluations, course syllabi, course assignments, nominations for teaching awards and statements by former students w ho have graduated from the University. Teaching includes not only course instruc tion but also directing honors papers and masters theses. D. Research . All applicants for tenure must exhibit a record of accomplishment in research. Tenure is based on the quality of scholarly publications. There must be, moreover, evidence of continuous scholarly production. The publications submitted for review must be judged by outsi de reviewers as of high quality and as a contribution to the discipline. There must also be evidence of the applicant's promise as a productive scholar. There are several indicators that sc holarship is of high quality, including funding by outside agencies, positive evaluations by peer s, high reputation of journal or publisher, and frequency of citation by other scholars. Manuscripts accepted for publication shall be treated as publications. There must be a letter of acceptance in the dossier for each accepted manuscript. E. Service . All applicants for te nure must provide evidence of effective service to the University, the discipline and external communities. Examples of University 3 of 6 9/25/2003 service are participation in committees, assisting student gr oups and holding offices of responsibility. Examples of service to political science are writing book reviews, reviewing manuscript submissions for a refer eed journal, editing a journal, reviewing grant applications, serving as a panel chair or discussant at a professional meeting and holding offices in a professional organizati on. Examples of service to communities outside the university and the discipline are giving talks to community organizations, contributing time and expertise to community associations, and providing outreach to local K-12 schools. V. Criteria for Promotion to Professor A. Length of service . Promotion to the rank of professor requires ten years of service. Any credit for previous years of service at other institutions shall be clearly stated in the faculty member 's letter of appointment. B. Appropriate degree . All applicants for promoti on to professor shall have a doctorate in political science or related discipline. C. Distinction between promoti on to associate and full professor. Promotion to associate professor is based on the applicant's promise as a scholar. Promotion to professor is based on the applicant's established reputation as a scholar. The applicant for professor, moreover, cannot have merely local or regional standing. He or she must have achieved national standing. An international reputation as a contributor to the discipline is also sufficient to meet this criterion. D. Teaching . All applicants for promotion to professor must exhibit success in teaching. Documentation of effective teachi ng must include summaries of the Student Instructional Rating System (SIRS) evaluations for every course taught at the University of Memphis over the past five years. Ca ndidates are encouraged to submit additional evidence of excellence in teaching including pe er evaluations, course syllabi, course assignments, nominations for teaching awards and statements by former students who have graduated from the University. Teachi ng includes not only course instruction but also directing honors papers and master's theses. E. Research . All applicants for promotion to professor must provide evidence of a national reputation as a scholar. The prim ary evidence that the candidate's scholarly work has reached this high level of qualit y is letters submitted by outside reviewers. There must be, moreover, evidence of continuous scholarly production. Funding of research by outside agencies shall also be considered evidence of quality. F. Service. All applicants for promotion to professor must provide evidence of effective service to the University, the discip line and external communities. Examples of University service are participation in co mmittees, assisting stude nt groups and holding offices of responsibility. Examples of service to political science are writing book reviews, reviewing manuscript submissions fo r a refereed journal, editing a journal, reviewing grant applications, serving as a panel chair or discussant at a professional meeting and holding offices in a professiona l organization. Examples of service to communities outside the university and the discipline are giving talks to community organizations, contributing time and expertise to community associations, serving as a consultant and providing outreach to local K-12 schools. VI. Application Process 4 of 6 9/25/2003 A. Notification . By the first of May, candidates for promotion and/or tenure shall give to the departmental chair wr itten notice of intent to apply. B. Dossier . The candidate shall prepare a dossi er that must conform to university and college requirements. College guidelines for completion of the dossier can be found at . A sample dossier can be found at du/~provost/forms/dossier.pdf C. External Review Letters . At least four external reviewers must submit letters to the department chair evaluating the candi date's scholarship. The candidate shall submit a list of four potential reviewers to th e department chair. The department chair and the chair of the tenure and promotion comm ittee shall each add one external reviewer to the list, for a total of six names. The de partment chair shall request a letter from each of the six nominees. Every effort should be made to minimize biases for or against the candidate when selecting qualified peers. No more than on e of the reviewers may have been a major advisor of or a co llaborator with the candidate. VII. Composition and Functioning of Departmental Committee A. For candidates for tenure and pr omotion to associate professor, the departmental Tenure and Promotion Committee sh all consist of all tenured associate and full professors. For promotion to full professor, the committee shall consist of only tenured full professors. B. The department chair is excluded fr om the committee. Spouses of applicants for tenure and/or promotion are excluded. Applicants for promotion are excluded. C. The committee shall select its own chair by majority vote in the spring semester in time for the committee chair to participate in the selection of external reviewers in May. D. The minimum size of the committee is three. A quorum consists of three committee members. E. If the committee falls below three me mbers, the department chair shall request the dean of the College of Arts and Sciences to appoint a tenured associate or full professor from an appropriate department. Committees considering applications for promotion to full professor shall consist of at least three full professors. F. The Tenure and Promotion Committ ee shall vote by secret ballot. The committee chair shall tally and record the votes. Only committee members who have reviewed dossiers and participated in committee discussions may vote. No proxy voting is permitted. G. The chair shall summarize the reasons for the committee's recommendation and forward the recommendation and supporting statement to the department chair. H. The department chair's recommendati on to the dean is independent of the Tenure and Promotion Committee's recommenda tion. The department chair shall have the responsibility for providing in the dossier a written discussion of the quality of the candidate's productivity, including the natu re and scope of the outlets where the candidate's productions have appeared (refer eed or non-refereed; invited or submitted for review; local, regional, national, internati onal; disciplinary, interdisciplinary, and/or public). The chair shall forward the committee's report as well as his or her own recommendation and supporting statemen t to the Office of the Dean. 5 of 6 9/25/2003 I. If the department chair applies fo r tenure and/or promotion, the dossier goes directly from the department committee to th e dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. J. The department chair shall meet w ith the applicant within two weeks of the recommendation and notify him or her of the committee's and department chair's recommendations and the reasons for them. VIII. Modification of Tenure and Promotion Guidelines A. Department tenure and promotion gui delines shall be reviewed by the tenured associate and full professors. Any modifications require approval by a majority vote of this group. B. The review shall take place each fall. The department chair is responsible for ensuring that the review is comple ted by the end of the fall semester. 6 of 6 9/25/2003 Flow Chart of Department Tenure and Promotion Procedures Step Responsibility Action Due Date 1 Candidate Notify department chair of intent to apply for tenure and/or promotion May 1 2 Department Chair Notify chair of tenure and promotion committee of candidate's intent to apply. If committee fails to meet minimum size requirement of three, request dean to appoint a member from an appropriate department. May 5 3 Candidate, Department Chair, Chair of T & P Committee Develop a list of six potential external reviewers. May 15 4 Department Chair Solicit agreement from the six nominees to write letters of assessment. May 30 5 Candidate Assemble pack et of publications and curriculum vitae to submit to external reviewers. May 30 6 Department Chair Send packet to all nominees who have agreed to act as external reviewers. June 2 7 Candidate Complete dossi er, following university, college and departmental guidelines, and submit to the department chair. Sept. 15 8 Department Chair Collect doss ier and letters from external reviewers and submit to chair of department tenure and promotion committee. Sept. 20 9 Chair of T & P Committee Schedule and lead discussion of candidate's application; record the vote and recommendation; summarize the committee's reasoning; submit the recommendation and statement to the department chair. Oct. 1 10 Department Chair Independently review candidate's dossier and external reviews and make a recommendation; write a summary of the reasons for the recommendation; provide rationale for selection of external reviewers; submit all materials to dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. Oct. 11