#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/comp.php
COMP Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning COMP Courses COMPUTER SCIENCE (COMP) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: COMP 6990-6999. Topics in Computer Science. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online course listing. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. COMP 7990-99-8990-99. Advanced Topics in Computer Science. (1-3). Advanced topics and recent developments in computer science. Repeatable by permission. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. COMP 6001 - Computer Programming (3) Basic concepts in computer programming. Incorporates object oriented concepts, variables, flow control statements, arrays and lists, debugging and testing. NOTE: This course may not be used to fulfill requirements for the Computer Science major or Computer Science minor. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1710 or MATH 1910 or MATH 1421 or permission of instructor. COMP 6005 - Web Design/Development (3) Web interface development using HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX ; technological issues in web page design and data visualization; web servers and their features; web services. NOTE: This course may not be used to fulfill requirements for the Computer Science major or Computer Science minor. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6001, or one other course in computer programming, or permission of instructor. COMP 6014 - Intro Java Programming (3) Java problem-solving strategies with emphasis in fundamental programming skills, primitive data types, control structures, arrays, strings, I/O, basic recursion, documentation, testing and debugging techniques; introduction to object-oriented concepts. NOTE: This course may not be used to fulfill degree requirements. COMP 6030 - Desgn/Anlys Algorithms (3) Asymptotic behavior of programs; basic paradigms in algorithm design: greedy, divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming; analysis of efficiency, and optimality of representative algorithms, including graph, pattern matching, numerical, randomized, and approximation algorithms; approaches to lower bound analysis; basic parallel algorithms. NOTE: Computer Science majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2700 or permission of instructor. COMP 6040 - Programming Languages (3) Comparative features, syntax, and applicability of high-level programming languages such as FORTRAN, PASCAL, LISP, Scheme, ADA, C, C++, Java, PHP, JavaScript, Perl, Prolog, and FORTH data types, data structures, and dataflow; procedures, recursion, runtime environment, string manipulation, list processing, array processing, documentation, programming style. NOTE: Computer Science majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150, or permission of instructor. COMP 6041 - Intro To Compilers (3) Finite state recognizers, lexical scanners, symbol tables, context-free methods such as recursive descent, LL(K), precedence, LR(K), SLR(K); language translation, generation and improvement of machine independent codes, inherited and synthesized attributes syntax directed translation schema. PREREQUISITE: COMP 3410, 6040 and 6030. COMP 6242 - Intro Computer Graphics (3) Characteristics of graphics I/O devices; 2D/3D transformation including scaling, translation, and rotation; graphics pipeline; data structures for graphics; geometry representation; OpenGL programming; vertex processing; lighting and shading; rasterization including line and polygon drawing; ray casting; ray tracing; computer graphics in games; visualization. PREREQUISITE: COMP 3150 and MATH 3242 or permission of instructor. COMP 6270 - Operating Systems (3) Hierarchy of storage devices, I/O buffering, interrupts, channels; multi-programming, processor and job scheduling, memory management: paging, segmentation, virtual memory; management of asynchronous processes: interrupt procedure calls, process state and automatic switch instructions, semaphores, concurrency; security and recovery procedures. NOTE: Computer Science majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITES: COMP 2150 and either COMP 3410 or EECE 4278. COMP 6272 - System Admin and Unix Prog (3) Fundamental of UNIX and operating systems principles; scripting; principles and practices of systems administration and management; network file systems; account management; OS installation; startup and shutdown, booting, backup, restore; system administration tools; web administration; duties and responsibilities of a system administrator. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6270 or permission of instructor. COMP 6302 - Web Service/Internet (3) Design and implementation of Web services, including Internet architecture and protocol layering; client-server application design; peer-peer application design; World Wide Web programming using HTML, XML, Java, and advanced scripting languages; security issues. PREREQUISITE: COMP 3115, or permission of instructor. COMP 6310 - Wireless Mobile Comp (3) Internet architecture and design, IPv4 and IPv6, routing algorithms, TCP congestion control, peer-to-peer applications, wireless LAN, mobile IP, mobile ad hoc networks, wireless sensor networks. PREREQUISITE: COMP 3825. COMP 6410 - Computer Security (3) Computer security; confidentiality, integrity, availability, methods and protocols in cryptography, digital signature, authentication, bit commitment; security in computing, programs, databases, operating systems; secure communication, secure channel, public key infrastructure, certificates; digital evidence, forensics tools; monitor and response; legal and ethical issues; risk management, security administration. PREREQUISITE: COMP 3825, or permission of instructor. COMP 6601 - Models Of Computation (3) Computer models as a basis of the understanding and analysis of programming: computation and complexity: machine models (finite-state, stack and Turing machines), linguistic models (grammars, lambda calculus, and predicate calculi); biologically-inspired models (e.g.: neural nets or genetic algorithms); unsolvability, universality, decidability, and feasibility. NOTE: Computer Science majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6030, or permission of instructor COMP 6720 - Intro Artificial Intlg (3) (Same as EECE 6720.) Fundamentals of programming in LISP; central ideas of artificial intelligence, including heuristic search, problem solving, slot-and-filler structures and knowledge representation.PREREQUISITE: COMP 4040 or permission of instructor. COMP 6730 - Expert Systems (3) (Same as EECE 6730.) Fundamentals of programming in PROLOG, central ideas of expert system development, including knowledge representation, control structures, tools, knowledge acquisition, and knowledge engineering. PREREQUISITE: COMP 4030, or permission of instructor. COMP 6731 - Data Visualization (3) (Same as EECE 6731). Terminology, methodology, and applications of data visualization; methods for visualizing data from a variety of engineering and scientific fields including both static and time varying data and methods for generating both surface and volume visualizations. PREREQUISITES: EECE 3221 or COMP 2150 or permission of instructor. COMP 6901 - Ind Study Computer Sci (1-3) Directed individual study of selected areas of computer science. Repeatable by permission to 6 semester hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. COMP 6911 - Internshp Com Science (1-6) Practical experience in computer science; students are placed with governmental or private organizations; project must be approved and supervised by department faculty; academic credit granted on certification of cooperating agency and acceptance by the supervising faculty of written report. May be repeated for total of 6 semester hours credit. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. COMP 7012 - Fndtns/Software Engr (3) (Same as EECE 7012-8012). Covers project management; software disciplines (requirements, analysis, design, implementation, testing); software modeling notations; mapping designs to code. Students work in teams to develop a significant software system. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150 or permission of the instructor. COMP 7041 - Compiler Design (3) Translation of computer source language--including compiling of interpreters, scanning, and code generation--for arithmetical and Boolean expressions, arrays, conditional and iterative statements using recursive and nonrecursive compiling techniques; construction of automated compiler given a source language in form of a context-free grammar and a target in the form of actions to be performed when rules of grammar are satisfied. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6041. COMP 7081 - Software Engr Methodologies (3) Common software engineering methodologies, such as waterfall, prototyping, iterative and incremental development, spiral development, rapid application development, and extreme programming; advanced object-oriented analysis and design methods, reuse, and testing. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7012 or permission of instructor. COMP 7083 - Engineering Secure Software (3) Development of secure software systems; writing secure code; vulnerability detection; limiting the impact of security vulnerabilities, balancing security properties (confidentiality, integrity, availability); cryptography concepts, trust versus trustworthiness, attack vectors/surface, malware detection/defense, risk and threat intelligence. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7012 or permission of instructor. COMP 7085 - Program Comprehension (3) Cognitive and mental models of how people learn to program and how people understand existing large software systems; software environments to assist software developers build, maintain, and evolve software systems; how visualization of software systems aids in program comprehension. PREREQUISITES: COMP 7012 or permission of instructor. COMP 7087 - Topics Software Engr (3) Recent theoretical and practical issues in software engineering. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the department. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7012 or permission of instructor. COMP 7115 - Database Systems (3) Review of the relational model; query processing and optimization; physical database design and tuning; transaction processing; concurrency control; crash recovery; database buffer management; database security. PREREQUISITE: COMP 3115 or permission of instructor. COMP 7116 - Adv Database Systems (3) Advanced data modeling; object-oriented and object-relational databases; indexing of complex data; advanced transaction processing; on-line analytical processing and data warehousing; distributed database processing. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7115 or permission of instructor. COMP 7117 - Topic Database Mgmt Sys (3) Advanced current research topics in database and information management, with emphasis on nontraditional data and applications. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7116 or permission of instructor. COMP 7118 - Topics In Data Mining (3) Approaches to data mining and knowledge discovery (graphical, statistical, combinatorial, heuristic); classification and clustering; time series analysis; spatial data mining; data mining applications. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150 or permission of instructor. COMP 7120 - Cryptgrphy/Data Securty (3) (Same as MIS 7670-8670). Ancient and modern cryptology and ciphers; security problems in computing; basic encryption and decryption; public-key cryptography, notions of security in computing environments; encryption, protocols; security for programs, OSs, data bases, PCs, networks and communication; legal, ethical and human factors in computer security. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor; COMP 2700 recommended. COMP 7125 - Computer Forensics (3) Societal and legal impact of computer activity: computer crime, intellectual property, privacy issues, legal codes; risks, vulnerabilities, and countermeasures; methods and standards for extraction, preservation, and deposition of legal evidence in a court of law. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7105 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. COMP 7130 - Inform Retrieval/Web Search (3) Computational aspects, algorithms, and techniques for information retrieval from large collections of documents; major topics include ad-hoc retrieval, text processing, classical models of retrieval, term-weighting schemes, query operations, web search, text categorization, and text classification. PREREQUISITES: COMP 6040 or COMP 6041, or permission of insructor. COMP 7150 - Methods for Data Analysis (3) Methods and models for data analysis and management; the data life cycle; statistical methods, hypothesis testing, experimental design; data collection, cleansing, organization and mining; software tools such as statistical packages, nonrelational databases and computer simulations. PREREQUISITES: An undergraduate course in descriptive statistics, or permission of instructor. COMP 7212 - Operating/Distrib Sys (3) Overview of operating system architecture for centralized and distributed systems; storage device and file systems; process management, scheduling, synchronization, interprocess communications and security; case studies of selected operating systems. PREREQUISITES: COMP 2150 and 3410 or permission of instructor. COMP 7272 - Parallel Computing (3) Introduction to parallel and distributed computing; various aspects of parallel programming including architecture, communication, algorithms, performance, and programming; distributed computing architectures such as client-server and CORBA; synchronization, replication, and distributed file systems; benchmark applications. PREREQUISITES: COMP 2150 and 7212 or permission of instructor. COMP 7274 - Topics Distrib Computng (3) Introduction to emerging topics in distributed computing; heterogeneous computing and middleware over the Internet and the World-Wide Web; distributed cache coherency problem; wireless computing and wearable devices; avatar computing; application of distributed computing to E-commerce and other fields. PREREQUISITES: COMP 7/8272 or permission of instructor. COMP 7282 - Evolutionry Computation (3) Computational implementation of biological analogies, such as genetic algorithms, genetic programming, embryonics, evolutionary engineering; representation, fitness functions, fitness landscapes, automatically defined functions; applications to optimization, machine learning, software development. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6601 or permission of instructor. COMP 7290 - Molecular Computing (3) (Same as MMCS 7290-8290). Basics of cell biology and genetics (DNA structure and enzymes, replication and translation); feasible DNA-based solution of hard computational problems; issues in the design of molecular computers; foundations of nanotechnology. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7712 or permission of instructor. COMP 7295 - Algorithms Comp Biol/Bioinform (3) Algorithms for problems arising in molecular biology, such as sequence matching, alignment, gene finding, sequence assembly, phylogeny, and structure prediction; internet resources; statistical analysis of DNA, RNA, and protein sequences. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6030 or permission of instructor. COMP 7311 - Adv Computer Networks (3) Internet architecture and layering; intra-domain and inter-domain routing protocols; congestion control; network QoS; peer-to-peer networks; overlay networks; wireless and sensor networks. PREREQUISITE: COMP 3825, or permission of instructor. COMP 7313 - Network Model/Perf Analysis (3) Mathematical modeling of networking problems; proving correctness of networking algorithms; applying optimization techniques to solving networking problems; deriving deterministic bounds on performance (approximation factors) for hard networking systems; deriving probabilistic guarantees on the performance of networking systems. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7612 COMP 7327 - Network/Internet Secrty (3) Concepts of network security; survey of security software packages; security in Java; intrusion-detection systems; current security issues on Internet and electronic commerce. PREREQUISITES: COMP 6310 and 7120 or permission of instructor. COMP 7514 - Cognitive Science Sem (3) Systematic study of current topics in Cognitive Science; student required to make presentations and prepare research paper or project. No more than 3 hours may be applied to MS with computer science concentration. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. COMP 7515 - Complex Systems Sem (3) Systematic study of information processing, broadly construed, natural or artificial, occurring in complex systemic interactions, such as those encountered in dynamical, neural, biological, social, evolutionary, and cyberspatial systems. PREREQUISITES: COMP 6601 or permission of instructor. COMP 7517 - Human/Comptr Interact (3) Facts, theories, and issues about human sensation, perception, and interaction for developing more ergonomic and human-like computer interfaces; interactive platforms in use or under development. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. COMP 7601 - Topics Discrete Modelng (3) Application of computer models to problem solving in natural language processing, decision making, pattern recognition, image processing, and phenomena in physics, chemistry and biology. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6601 or permission of instructor. COMP 7612 - Foundations of Computing (3) Review of basic models of computation and complexity; measures and modes of complexity analyses, both logical and experimental; average case analysis of algorithms; information complexity and its applications to coding; deterministic and stochastic methods for data analysis and compaction, hypothesis testing, and estimation. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6030, or permission of instructor. COMP 7712 - Algorithms/Prob Solv (3) Covers algorithms problems, techniques, and design emphasizing problem solving and implementation skills; topics include advanced data structures, graph algorithms, string matching, network flow, dynamic programming, and randomized algorithms. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150 or permission of instructor. COMP 7713 - Advanced Topics Algorithms (3) Advanced methods and data structures in sequential algorithms, including amortized analysis, backtracking, and branch-and-bound, heuristics, randomized algorithms, derandomization, approximation, and approximability; basic parallel models and algorithms, including sorting and searching, numerical, symbolic, and probabilistic algorithms. PREREQUISITES: COMP 7712 or permission of instructor. COMP 7717 - Topics In Algorithms (3) Recent developments and practical issues in algorithms and data structures. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7713 or permission of instructor. COMP 7719 - Combinatorial Optimiztn (3) Computational complexity: reductions, oracles and NP-completeness; five basic problems on convex sets in Euclidean spaces; pivoting, ellipsoid, and basis reductions methods; optimization on graphs; matching and stable set polytopes; algorithms on perfect graphs. PREREQUISITES: COMP 7713 or COMP 7715 or permission of instructor. COMP 7720 - Artificial Intelligence (3) (Same as EECE 7720-8720). Central issues of artificial intelligence, including game playing, planning, machine learning, common-sense reasoning, perception and action; implementations in LISP. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6720. COMP 7740 - Neural Networks (3) (Same as EECE 7740-8740). Learning algorithms for multilayer perceptrons, least-mean squares, backpropagation and its variants, cascade-correlation, other supervised learning algorithms; unsupervised methods, including Hebbian, competitive, and reinforcement learning; applications to associative memories, combinatorial optimization, component analysis, function approximation, pattern classification; theory of neurodynamics, including equilibrium, stability, and computational power. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6030, or permission of instructor. COMP 7745 - Machine Learning (3) An introduction to machine learning: hypothesis spaces, formation and evaluation; concept learning, decision trees, linear regression and perceptrons; graphical models (naive Bayes, Bayes Nets, Hidden Markov Models); computational learning theory; Support Vector Machines; instance-based learning. PREREQUISITES: COMP 7740, or permission of instructor. COMP 7747 - Adv Topics in Machine Learning (3) Advanced concepts in machine learning, including: inference and learning in graphical models, reinforcement learning, Markov decision processes, active learning, unsupervised learning, deep learning, autoencoders, Boltzmann machines. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7745 or permission of instructor. COMP 7760 - Control Auto Agents (3) Exploration and current applications of nontraditional control methods for design of autonomous agents, both in hardware and software, capable of operating in unusual and complex environments, such as subsumption architectures, adaptive fuzzy systems and software agents; novel learning and action selection paradigms. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6001 or permission of instructor. COMP 7770 - Knowledge Rep/Reason (3) Focuses on long-standing issues of knowledge representation, including ontologies; knowledge structures; and representing events, actions, time, space, geometry, and common-sense knowledge. Student will complete a project using declarative language. PREREQUISITES: COMP 6730 or 6720 or permission of instructor. COMP 7780 - Natural Lang Processng (3) (Same as PSYC 7221-8221). Computational aspects, algorithms, and techniques for human language processing; topics include lexical analysis, syntactic parsing, semantics, word sense disambiguation, logic forms, dialog, and pragmatics; applications include question answering and information extraction among others. PREREQUISITES: COMP 6040 or 6041 or permission of instructor. COMP 7820 - Pci Algrthms/Mach Visn (3) Image formation and sensing in vision systems; basic algorithms for processing continuous and discrete images; edge detection; shape detection vs. brightness, lightness, shading, and color; reflectance maps; stereoscopic systems; pattern classification; representation problems; basic concepts and applications of computational geometry; passive navigation and motion planning. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7713 or permission of instructor. COMP 7900 - Cyber Ethics (3) Issues, concepts, and frameworks for cyber ethics: privacy, intellectual property, professionalism, code of ethics and professional practices, software developers' obligations to different stakeholders, freedom of speech on Internet; case studies of ethical tradeoffs in technical decisions. PREREQUISITE: 9 hours of graduate studies, or permission of instructor. COMP 7901 - Ind Studies Comp Sci (1-4) Directed independent problem research and program design, writing, and documentation in an area selected by student with approval of both adviser and supervising staff members. Repeatable by permission. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. COMP 7950 - Research Methods Comp Sci (1) Overview of research methods in computer science; how to read and write research papers in computer science; presentation skills for technical presentations; software tools for research in computer science. NOTE: Open to Computer Science majors only. COMP 7960 - Sem Teaching/Res/Consult (3) Non-traditional setting in which masters students develop skills in areas of teaching, research, and consulting. Required of all graduate assistants in the department. NOTE: Computer Science majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. COMP 7980 - Master's Project (1-3) Research for specific projects under the supervision of a faculty member and possibly a liaison from commerce or industry. Each section of this class will be designated for a special area. PREREQUISITE: Permission of project advisor. Grading of A-F, IP. COMP 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Grades of S, U, of IP will be given COMP 8012 - Fndtns/Software Engr (3) (Same as EECE 7012-8012). Covers project management; software disciplines (requirements, analysis, design, implementation, testing); software modeling notations; mapping designs to code. Students work in teams to develop a significant software system. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150 or permission of the instructor. COMP 8041 - Compiler Design (3) Translation of computer source language--including compiling of interpreters, scanning, and code generation--for arithmetical and Boolean expressions, arrays, conditional and iterative statements using recursive and nonrecursive compiling techniques; construction of automated compiler given a source language in form of a context-free grammar and a target in the form of actions to be performed when rules of grammar are satisfied. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6041. COMP 8081 - Software Engr Methodologies (3) Common software engineering methodologies, such as waterfall, prototyping, iterative and incremental development, spiral development, rapid application development, and extreme programming; advanced object-oriented analysis and design methods, reuse, and testing. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7012 or permission of instructor. COMP 8083 - Engineering Secure Software (3) Development of secure software systems; writing secure code; vulnerability detection; limiting the impact of security vulnerabilities, balancing security properties (confidentiality, integrity, availability); cryptography concepts, trust versus trustworthiness, attack vectors/surface, malware detection/defense, risk and threat intelligence. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7012 or permission of instructor. COMP 8085 - Program Comprehension (3) Cognitive and mental models of how people learn to program and how people understand existing large software systems; software environments to assist software developers build, maintain, and evolve software systems; how visualization of software systems aids in program comprehension. PREREQUISITES: COMP 7012 or permission of instructor. COMP 8087 - Topics Software Engr (3) Recent theoretical and practical issues in software engineering. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with permission of the department. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7012 or permission of instructor. COMP 8116 - Adv Database Systems (3) Advanced data modeling; object-oriented and object-relational databases; indexing of complex data; advanced transaction processing; on-line analytical processing and data warehousing; distributed database processing. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7115 or permission of instructor. COMP 8117 - Topic Database Mgmt Sys (3) Advanced current research topics in database and information management, with emphasis on nontraditional data and applications. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7116 or permission of instructor. COMP 8118 - Topics In Data Mining (3) Approaches to data mining and knowledge discovery (graphical, statistical, combinatorial, heuristic); classification and clustering; time series analysis; spatial data mining; data mining applications. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150 or permission of instructor. COMP 8120 - Cryptgrphy/Data Securty (3) (Same as MIS 7670-8670). Ancient and modern cryptology and ciphers; security problems in computing; basic encryption and decryption; public-key cryptography, notions of security in computing environments; encryption, protocols; security for programs, OSs, data bases, PCs, networks and communication; legal, ethical and human factors in computer security. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor; COMP 2700 recommended. COMP 8130 - Inform Retrieval/Web Search (3) Computational aspects, algorithms, and techniques for information retrieval from large collections of documents; major topics include ad-hoc retrieval, text processing, classical models of retrieval, term-weighting schemes, query operations, web search, text categorization, and text classification. PREREQUISITES: COMP 6040 or COMP 6041, or permission of insructor. COMP 8150 - Methods for Data Analysis (3) Methods and models for data analysis and management; the data life cycle; statistical methods, hypothesis testing, experimental design; data collection, cleansing, organization and mining; software tools such as statistical packages, nonrelational databases and computer simulations. PREREQUISITES: An undergraduate course in descriptive statistics, or permission of instructor. COMP 8212 - Operating/Distrib Sys (3) Overview of operating system architecture for centralized and distributed systems; storage device and file systems; process management, scheduling, synchronization, interprocess communications and security; case studies of selected operating systems. PREREQUISITES: COMP 2150 and 3410 or permission of instructor. COMP 8272 - Parallel Computing (3) Introduction to parallel and distributed computing; various aspects of parallel programming including architecture, communication, algorithms, performance, and programming; distributed computing architectures such as client-server and CORBA; synchronization, replication, and distributed file systems; benchmark applications. PREREQUISITES: COMP 2150 and 7212 or permission of instructor. COMP 8274 - Topics Distrib Computng (3) Introduction to emerging topics in distributed computing; heterogeneous computing and middleware over the Internet and the World-Wide Web; distributed cache coherency problem; wireless computing and wearable devices; avatar computing; application of distributed computing to E-commerce and other fields. PREREQUISITES: COMP 7/8272 or permission of instructor. COMP 8282 - Evolutionry Computation (3) Computational implementation of biological analogies, such as genetic algorithms, genetic programming, embryonics, evolutionary engineering; representation, fitness functions, fitness landscapes, automatically defined functions; applications to optimization, machine learning, software development. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6601 or permission of instructor. COMP 8290 - Molecular Computing (3) (Same as MMCS 7290-8290). Basics of cell biology and genetics (DNA structure and enzymes, replication and translation); feasible DNA-based solution of hard computational problems; issues in the design of molecular computers; foundations of nanotechnology. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7712 or permission of instructor. COMP 8295 - Algorithms Comp Biol/Bioinform (3) Algorithms for problems arising in molecular biology, such as sequence matching, alignment, gene finding, sequence assembly, phylogeny, and structure prediction; internet resources; statistical analysis of DNA, RNA, and protein sequences. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6030 or permission of instructor. COMP 8311 - Adv Computer Networks (3) Internet architecture and layering; intra-domain and inter-domain routing protocols; congestion control; network QoS; peer-to-peer networks; overlay networks; wireless and sensor networks. PREREQUISITE: COMP 3825, or permission of instructor. COMP 8313 - Ntwrk Dsgn/Perf Anlys (3) Mathematical modeling of networking problems; proving correctness of networking algorithms; applying optimization techniques to solving networking problems; deriving deterministic bounds on performance (approximation factors) for hard networking systems; deriving probabilistic guarantees on the performance of networking systems. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7612 COMP 8327 - Network/Internet Secrty (3) Concepts of network security; survey of security software packages; security in Java; intrusion-detection systems; current security issues on Internet and electronic commerce. PREREQUISITES: COMP 6310 and 7120 or permission of instructor. COMP 8514 - Cognitive Science Sem (3) Systematic study of current topics in Cognitive Science; student required to make presentations and prepare research paper or project. No more than 3 hours may be applied to MS with computer science concentration. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. COMP 8515 - Complex Systems Sem (3) Systematic study of information processing, broadly construed, natural or artificial, occurring in complex systemic interactions, such as those encountered in dynamical, neural, biological, social, evolutionary, and cyberspatial systems. PREREQUISITES: COMP 6601 or permission of instructor. COMP 8517 - Human/Comptr Interact (3) Facts, theories, and issues about human sensation, perception, and interaction for developing more ergonomic and human-like computer interfaces; interactive platforms in use or under development. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. COMP 8601 - Topcis Discrete Modelng (3) Application of computer models to problem solving in natural language processing, decision making, pattern recognition, image processing, and phenomena in physics, chemistry and biology. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6601 or permission of instructor. COMP 8612 - Foundations of Computing (3) Review of basic models of computation and complexity; measures and modes of complexity analyses, both logical and experimental; average case analysis of algorithms; information complexity and its applications to coding; deterministic and stochastic methods for data analysis and compaction, hypothesis testing, and estimation. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6030, or permission of instructor. COMP 8712 - Algorithms/Prob Solv (3) Covers algorithms problems, techniques, and design emphasizing problem solving and implementation skills; topics include advanced data structures, graph algorithms, string matching, network flow, dynamic programming, and randomized algorithms. PREREQUISITE: COMP 2150 or permission of instructor. COMP 8713 - Advanced Topics Algorithms (3) Advanced methods and data structures in sequential algorithms, including amortized analysis, backtracking, and branch-and-bound, heuristics, randomized algorithms, derandomization, approximation, and approximability; basic parallel models and algorithms, including sorting and searching, numerical, symbolic, and probabilistic algorithms. PREREQUISITES: COMP 7712 or permission of instructor. COMP 8717 - Topics In Algorithms (3) Recent developments and practical issues in algorithms and data structures. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7713 or permission of instructor. COMP 8719 - Combinatorial Optimiztn (3) Computational complexity: reductions, oracles and NP-completeness; five basic problems on convex sets in Euclidean spaces; pivoting, ellipsoid, and basis reductions methods; optimization on graphs; matching and stable set polytopes; algorithms on perfect graphs. PREREQUISITES: COMP 7713 or COMP 7715 or permission of instructor. COMP 8720 - Artificial Intelligence (3) (Same as EECE 7720-8720). Central issues of artificial intelligence, including game playing, planning, machine learning, common-sense reasoning, perception and action; implementations in LISP. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6720. COMP 8740 - Neural Networks (3) (Same as EECE 7740-8740). Learning algorithms for multilayer perceptrons, least-mean squares, backpropagation and its variants, cascade-correlation, other supervised learning algorithms; unsupervised methods, including Hebbian, competitive, and reinforcement learning; applications to associative memories, combinatorial optimization, component analysis, function approximation, pattern classification; theory of neurodynamics, including equilibrium, stability, and computational power. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6030, or permission of instructor. COMP 8745 - Machine Learning (3) An introduction to machine learning: hypothesis spaces, formation and evaluation; concept learning, decision trees, linear regression and perceptrons; graphical models (naive Bayes, Bayes Nets, Hidden Markov Models); computational learning theory; Support Vector Machines; instance-based learning. PREREQUISITES: COMP 7740, or permission of instructor. COMP 8747 - Adv Topics in Machine Learning (3) Advanced concepts in machine learning, including: inference and learning in graphical models, reinforcement learning, Markov decision processes, active learning, unsupervised learning, deep learning, autoencoders, Boltzmann machines. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7745 or permission of instructor. COMP 8760 - Control Auto Agents (3) Exploration and current applications of nontraditional control methods for design of autonomous agents, both in hardware and software, capable of operating in unusual and complex environments, such as subsumption architectures, adaptive fuzzy systems and software agents; novel learning and action selection paradigms. PREREQUISITE: COMP 6001 or permission of instructor. COMP 8770 - Knowledge Rep/Reason (3) Focuses on long-standing issues of knowledge representation, including ontologies; knowledge structures; and representing events, actions, time, space, geometry, and common-sense knowledge. Student will complete a project using declarative language. PREREQUISITES: COMP 6730 or 6720 or permission of instructor. COMP 8780 - Natural Lang Processng (3) (Same as PSYC 7221-8221). Computational aspects, algorithms, and techniques for human language processing; topics include lexical analysis, syntactic parsing, semantics, word sense disambiguation, logic forms, dialog, and pragmatics; applications include question answering and information extraction among others. PREREQUISITES: COMP 6040 or 6041 or permission of instructor. COMP 8820 - Pci Algrthms/Mach Visn (3) Image formation and sensing in vision systems; basic algorithms for processing continuous and discrete images; edge detection; shape detection vs. brightness, lightness, shading, and color; reflectance maps; stereoscopic systems; pattern classification; representation problems; basic concepts and applications of computational geometry; passive navigation and motion planning. PREREQUISITE: COMP 7713 or permission of instructor. COMP 8901 - Ind Studies Comp Sci (1-4) Directed independent problem research and program design, writing, and documentation in an area selected by student with approval of both adviser and supervising staff members. Repeatable by permission. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. COMP 8960 - Sem Teaching/Res/Consult (3) Non-traditional setting in which masters students develop skills in areas of teaching, research, and consulting. Required of all graduate assistants in the department. NOTE: Computer Science majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. COMP 9000 - Dissertation (1-12) Independent research for the PhD degree.Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .