#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/public_np_administration.pdf
Tenure and Promotion Guidelines Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy College of Arts and Sciences Date Guidelines Modified: April 2009 I. Overview A. All candidates for tenure and promotion must meet divisional, school, college and university eligibility criteria in effect at the time of application. B. Division Mission The primary mission of the Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration at The University of Memphis is professional education, with The Master of Public Administration as the central focus of the education program. The mission of the Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration at The University of Memphis is: To foster responsive, equitable, effecti ve, efficient, and accountable governance processes, public policies, and institution - based programs for the citizens of the Memphis/Mid - South region, the State of Tennessee, the United States, and the global community. The mission includes special attent ion to urban and regional issues. Toward this aim, the Master of Public Administration Degree Program is committed to graduate education and scholarship activity that integrates essential administrative competencies, public service values, and a multidisc iplinary approach to theory advancement within the context of shifting political, economic, and social structures. The Graduate Program in Public Administration was initiated in 1973 within the Department of Political Science. Since that time, the MPA p rogram has evolved to include concentrations in general public administration, urban management and planning, human resource development, nonprofit administration, and health administration. Both the MPA and MHA programs became independent divisions withi n the new School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy in October 1999. The MPA is one of 136 accredited programs in the nation. T he MPA program is designed to prepare students for professional administrative practice primarily in the public and nonprofit se ctors. Graduates, however, have also been successful in the for - profit sector. Professional education requires a strong core curriculum which integrates a theoretical grounding in the public administration discipline as well as key theories and concepts related to the practice of public and nonprofit administration. The faculties reflect the cross - section of education and experience associated with the discipline that is essential to assuring legitimacy of the program, academically and to the local, regi onal, and national practitioner/foundation community served by the program. Consequently, faculty must keep current on the evolution of theoretical concepts underlying their specialty areas. Faculty must also be able to effectively communicate the knowle dge, skills, and values of public administration to insure that graduates of the program have the competencies and ethical grounding necessary to discharge their responsibilities as public service practitioners. To successfully achieve high quality profes sional education, faculty research and community service must serve to integrate both the theory and practice of public and nonprofit administration. DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 2 of 14 C. General philosophy that su stains and advances civil society. Academic institutions perform this role through a number of means. One of those means is the development of understanding through the advancement of theory with practical application. As professionally oriented discipli nes, Public Administration and Nonprofit Administration sit at the nexus of those tasks. As a result, Public Administration and Nonprofit Administration professors are expected to engage in scholarship that advances theoretical understanding. And, they a re expected to engage in scholarship that advances application. In each case, they are informed by engagement with the practicing community in framing questions, conducting inquiry, and analyzing and disseminating the resulting learning. The University o tenure and promotion criteria are designed to recognize and reward both of these roles, theory building and application. Theory building may be evidenced through books, peer reviewed articles, ch apters and other materials. In addition to the media of theory building, application may be evidenced through externally reviewed reports and documentation of innovative practice outcomes. Both forms are recognized for tenure and promotion. A model cand idate will present a portfolio that evidences achievement in each area. The Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration recognizes teaching, research /scholarship , and service as the three primary areas upon which to evaluate candidates for tenure and promotion. See Appendix 1 for guidelines on the general expectations of faculty performance in these three critical areas. II. Annual Reviews/Evaluation A. All faculty members are evaluated annually by the Division Directo r and the results used for decisions relating to tenure and promotion. Copies of the annual reviews will be included in the tenure/promotion dossier. The review calendar year and establi sh a plan of activities for the forthcoming year, or longer if appropriate. The review will consider performance in all areas, teaching, advising/mentoring, scholarship/creative activities, support, outreach, and service reported in the Faculty Evaluation and Planning document. See Appendix A Guidelines for Faculty Performance. Correction of any weaknesses cited in an annual review will be documented B. The review process begins with the submission of an updated cur riculum append supportive documentation as well as a thoughtful summary that documents both their accomplishments and forthcoming plans. The performance summary should include an expl anation of how these activities support the Division, School and University missions. The Division Director will provide explicit feedback to each tenure - track faculty member regarding progress toward tenure and promotion. This will include comments on t eaching, research, and service. Faculty members may formally respond to any aspect of the evaluation by commenting on their Evaluation and DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 3 of 14 signature on the planning report indicates appro plan. C. Full - time faculty members receive one - year, renewable contracts during the probationary period. The Division Director will recommend regular renewal of these contracts unless performance in teaching, research, or servi ce is unsatisfactory. Procedures related to non - renewal of contracts will be consistent with the policies and procedures described in the faculty handbook. As faculty members begin year six of a probationary period, they must make application for tenure and promotion to associate professor if they have n ot already attained that rank. Exceptions to the minimum probationary period are disc ussed in the faculty handbook. Faculty members who have not been promoted to associate professor and approved for tenur e will not have their contracts renewed at the end of the probationary period. However, they will be rehired for the following year on a one - year, nonrenewable contract. D. The Division Director will solicit a tenured faculty member to serve as a faculty me ntor for tenure - track assistant professors. With the mutual agreement of the assistant professor and the faculty member, the mentor will regularly meet with the tenure - track assistant professor to advise them about tenure and promotion criteria and procedu res. III. Mid - tenure Review A. The Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration will conduct a major midterm evaluation of untenured faculty in tenure - track positions. The purpose of this review is to provide faculty m embers with information about the status of their progress toward tenure and promotion. This evaluation unless the faculty member negotiates a different arrangement with the Division D irector and School Head. The midterm evaluation will be conducted jointly by members of the Division Tenure and Promotion Committee and Division Director. B. The faculty member will present documentation of his/her contributions and accomplishments in the areas of teaching, scholarship, and service in accordance with Divisional, School, College and University guidelines. Documentation, at a minimum, should include products such as course syllabi and materials; student evaluations; copies of published work s; and, written reviews and evaluations by qualified peers of unpublished or ongoing research/outreach efforts and service activities. C. Committee. The Division Director will partic ipate in the discussions. The C ommittee will then provide written comments and its recommendation s to the Division Director based on the outcome of the review meeting. The Division Director will hold a feedback meeting with the faculty member under review . The session should serve as a dialogue between the faculty member and Director of expectations, development of realistic plans to improve any areas of DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 4 of 14 concern, and generation of suggestions about th e tenure and promotion doss ier to highlight achievements. The Division Director integrates the to the School Head and Dean. IV. Criteria for Tenure and Promo tion to Associate Professor It is University policy that promotion to the ranks of associate will require a terminal degree appropriate to the discipline and evidence of research productivity and teaching effectiveness. According to C ollege guidelines, promotion from assistant to associate professor will accompany the awarding of tenure. Promotion and tenure, when granted, will normally take effect at the beginning of the seventh year of appointment. In the discipline of public admin istration, achieving a regional and national reputation requires recognition gained through the publication of journal articles, book chapters, and books, and outreach activities which involve the sharing of theoretical, research, and practice expertise wi th local/regional/national communities. scholarship should further the discipline of public administration. Since outreach /engaged scholarship activities can relate to all three primary academic endeavors, teaching, research and service, a nd relate to both process and products, the candidate will need to carefully document such activities in his/her dossier and explain how these activities contribute to scholarship, that is, disciplinary knowledge, dissemination of knowledge, understanding, and/or improved practice as well as explaining how it advances the reputation of the candidate and MPA Program. Ideally, a candidate will thus present a mixture of research products and scholarly activities to be evaluated in the review process, represen ting both traditional scholarship published in journals, book chapters, books, and the creation of engaged scholarship presented in technical reports, evaluations, successful grant proposals, opinion surveys, new administrative procedures, seminars and wor kshops, technical assistance, and interventions that may not always involve a written product . Co - authorship should neither enhance nor detract from the value of scholarship. The candidates must note their intellectual contribution to each work (i.e., the percentage of contribution to the work) . The criteria for tenure and promotion described below provide a quantitative requirement for research productivity. While serving as a benchmark, the candidate should be mindful that the tenure and promotion revie w process also takes into consideration qualitative assessments of the scholarship, including evaluation of the connection to a broader literature and/or theoretical frame; the degree to which the activity involved peer review; and the scope of dissemination. Excellence in research/eng aged scholarship demonstrates: impact on the agency and/or community; origi nality of design or methodology; res ults that can be generali zed; connection to a lite rature and/or theoretical frame; visibility gained for the researcher and Division; and significance of the work to the discipline. The weight given to each scholarly product by the reviewers reflects their assessment of these fac tors. A. Length of service : Possess five years of professional experience; 1 1 - time in a teaching or research appointment which carries faculty rank a t the four - year college or university level, appropriate to the discipline of public and nonprofit administration. It would not include time spent on leave from such DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 5 of 14 B. Appropriate degree : Possess the appropriate terminal degree from an accredited institution in his/her instructional discipline or related area. C. Teaching : Demonstrate that he/she is an effective teacher and that he or she is likely to remain so throughout his/her career. Student evaluations will be an integral part of documenting teaching effectiveness. D. Research /Scholarship : C learly demonstrate a history of significant achievement as a professional educator and scholar, as well as a strong potential for future professional growth and development and sustained scholarly productivity throughout his/her career. The a pplicant will possess a regional, if not national, reputation in the discipline. As a benchmark, the candidate will demonstrate evidence of sustained productivity of high quality scholarship discussed earlier , as eviden ced by at least six scholarly works that include a minimum of four publications that must be peer reviewed journal articles and book chapters. Increased weight may be given to products representing significant value to the discipline, e.g., books, reports , major grant funding by respected agencies/foundations. This scholarship should advance theoretical understanding and application, informed as appropriate by engaging with the practice community in framing questions, conducting inquiry, and analyzing and dissemination the resulting learning. Candidates may present a case for substitution of an additional conventional scholarly work but the candidate will have to support the case that the product is especially significant, such as having a major impact or originality, to warrant such a substitution. E. Service: Provide good divisional, school, college and/or university and/or community professional service F. Community Engagement: The candidate should demonstrate the development of a strategic agenda of scholarl y pursuits that links their research/scholarship and teaching agenda to the Mid - South community. appointments, unless during that time the candidate holds a similar appointment at anothe r institution. Experience may include postdoctoral appointments or appropriate full - time employment in the field of public administration but this arrangement must be negotiated with the Division Director, School Head, and Dean in advance of the candidate DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 6 of 14 V. Criteria for Promotion to Full Professor Individuals considered for promotion from associate to full profes sor should clearly be leading scholars and educators whose national and international stature can serve as a a discernable pattern of intellectual development and growt h and indicate that this high level of scholarly productivity will be sustained. See above narrative (Section IV) related to mix of productivity sought by the Division and expectation of quality not just quantify and may include engaged scholarship work p resented in technical reports, evaluations, successful grant proposals, opinion surveys, new administrative procedures, seminars and workshops, technical assistance, and interventions that may not always involve a written product. A candidate for promoti on to Professor is expected to meet the following criteria: A. Length of service : Possess ten years of professional experience (refer to footnote 1). B. Appropriate degree : Possess the appropriate terminal degree from an accredited institution in his/her instru ctional discipline or related area . C. Teaching : Demonstrate that he/she is an effective teacher and that he or she is likely to remain so throughout his/her career. Student evaluations will be an integral part of documenting teaching effectiveness. D. Resear ch: C learly demonstrate a history of significant achievement as a professional educator and scholar, as well as a strong potential for future professional growth and development and sust ained scholarly productivity throughout his/her career. The applicant will possess a national, if not international, reputation in the discipline, with the collective body of scholarly work having had a major impact , and which furthers the discipline of p ublic administration . Scholarly productivity as evidenced by at least fifteen scholarly works is the minimum expectation. Increased weight, however, may be given to products representing significant value to the discipline, e.g., books, reports, major gra nt funding by respected agencies/foundations. Although a numerical count demonstrate impact and/or reputation. E. Service : Provide extensive, high quality service to the division, school, colle ge, and university and high quality service to his/her profession and/or the community. F. Community Engagement : The candidate should demonstrate a record of scholarly pursuits that links their research/scholarship and teaching to the Mid - South community . VI. Application Process A. Candidates for tenure and/or promotion should not only be familiar with the scribed in the Faculty the requirements of and the process followed by the College ( _resources.htm#tenure ). B. The candidate should notify the Division Director of the intent to apply for tenure and/or promotion no later than May 1. Such early notification will DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 7 of 14 assure that review procedures are initiated in a timely fashion. The applica tion letter should be concise yet present the rational to support the requested change. The candidate applying for tenure and/or promotion will provide adequate evidence that he or she meets the criteria for tenure and/or promotion. C. A description of the materials required in the dossier is described in the Tenure and Promotion Guidelines of the College of Arts and Sciences. The dossier must conform to university and college requirements. The list of suggested materials represents only the minimum docum entation requirements; candidates are expected to also include documents that candidate will assemble all documents that the candidate believes strengthens and supports the application . The candidate is advised to give careful thought to assembling and organizing the documents since it is the throughout the many levels of the evaluation process. Candidates are e ncouraged to seek advice from the Division Director and colleagues, especially those who have served on tenure/promotion committees, on what to include or how to organize the materials. The University also may offer tenure and promotion workshops that mig ht prove helpful to the candidate. However, the responsibility for the quality of the dossier rests with the candidate. D. In conducting its evaluation, the Committee will use the materials submitted by the candidate and will seek from academic and professional peers, and if applicable, recognized minimum of four (4) evaluators who are recognized for their expertis e in the will be asked to comment on the curriculum vitae, and, as appropriate, evidence of professional work of the candidate. More than four external reviewers may be solicited at the discretion of the Division Director and/or the Division Tenure and Promotion Committee. The external reviewers will be informed that their letters, under Tennessee law, are subject to the Open Review Law and therefore are not confidential. All extern al review letters According to College of Arts and Sciences Tenure and Promotion Guidelines, the candidate does not have access to the letters until the process is completed. E. Only one of the external r eviewers may have had a connection with the candidate as a major advisor or collaborator. The external reviewers will be chosen from the list developed by the Division Tenure and Promotion Committee. The candidate is encouraged to submit a list of potent ial reviewers to the Committee for consideration. No more than two of the external The Tenure and Promotion Committee Chair and Division Director will make a final determination regarding the reviewers. DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 8 of 14 F. The Committee Chair will solicit evaluation letters from the external evaluators and will share the results with the Committee. Since all four of the peer evaluations must be incorporated in a dossier, the Committee Chair will need to sol icit reviewers early in the process and monitor their responsiveness to the calendar requirements. The Committee Chair will include in his/her report the rationale for the choice of the external re viewers using the required dossier format. G. Upon submission by the candidate, the dossier will be sent directly by the Division Director to the Division Tenure and Promotion Committee. Once a Promotion Committee for evaluation, nothing may be added or removed from it by anyone. VII. Composition and Functioning of Divisional Committee A. Composition: The Division Tenure and Promotion Committee will consist of all tenured full - time faculties within the Division, except the Division Direc tor. Only faculty with a rank equal to or higher than that to which the candidate aspires will vote on the application. A Division faculty member who is the spouse of the candidate may not vote on the application. Other Division faculty may be consulted as deemed necessary by the Committee B. In the event that less than three faculty members within the Division meet the qualifications for voting membership, the Division Director, in consultation with the Chair of the Tenure and Promotion Committee and the D ean will develop a committee of no less than three voting members. Faculty from outside the Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration must be: 1) full - time faculty with a rank equal to or higher than that to which the candidate aspires, 2 ) conduct scholarship and/or teaching in a disciplinary area similar to that of the candidate, and 3) be from other units best positioned to evaluate the candidate. C. Even when the requisite number of tenured faculty is available, the Director, in consultation with the candidate and the tenured faculty of the division, may appoint additional committee members to the division Tenure and Promotion Committee. D. The Division Tenure and Promotion Committee will select its chairperson by a vote of the Co mmittee members present at its first meeting. This will include: presiding over meetings of the Committee; tallying the secret ballots submitted by Committee members during the tenure and promotion deliberation; preparing the formal recommendation report with its rationale; Division Director in accordance with the College calendar. E. The written report of th e Committee will be drafted by the Chairperson and reviewed and approved by all committee members. Any member of the Division Tenure and Promotion Committee may submit a minority statement DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 9 of 14 on any candidate. The minority report from the Division shall incl ude sufficient information explaining the opposing vote so that reviewers at the next levels can better understand the opposing evaluations. All statements Director. F. A quorum, consisting of two - thirds of the members and no less than three members, must be present for the Committee to convene and deliberate. The vote is taken and counted after the deliberations of each respective candidate; the Committee Chairperson will call fo r the vote. To vote on tenure and promotion, a member of the Committee must have examined the candidate. When a Division faculty member serves on the College Tenure and Promotion Com mittee, he or she votes at the Division level. G. Faculty members on leave for the fall semester may participate in the voting process only if they have had the opportunity to fully evaluate the gs. Members of the committee who are candidates for promotion will absent themselves from the discussions and votes on their own candidacy. H. Prom otion Committee. The committee will conduct an independent recommendation to the Director for or against tenure and/or promotion. The his/her potential for continuing scholarly growth and development, and a statement regarding the appeared, including such features as refereed or non - refereed; invited or submitted; local, regional, national or international; disciplinary, interdisciplinary; and, type of format, public forum, written report, formal presentation, and so on. I. The Division Director will condu ct an independent evaluation of the candidate and prepare a written recommendation for or against tenure and/or promotion. In this report, the Division Director will assess the nature ial, respective recommendations to the School Head who will independently chool Head will then forward the College of Arts and Sciences Tenure and Promotion Committee for review and recommendation. The Division Director and School Head will notify applican ts of progress - to - date. Note: If the Division Director is being considered for tenure and/or promotion, the recommendation of the Division Committee will go directly to the SUAPP Head. DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 10 of 14 VIII. Modification of T & P Guidelines During the annual program retreat, f aculty will review the tenure and promotion guidelines to determine if modifications are necessary. A Division faculty member can raise issues and call for revisions of the guidelines at any time. All faculty members will participate in the discussions o f revisions but only tenured faculty will vote on final modifications to the guidelines. Adoption of the amendments will reflect the discussions and the guidelines will reflect the date the guidelines are formally revised. IX. Flowchart of Procedures and Gen eral Schedule A. The College of Arts and Sciences Calendar will outline the various due dates to which the candidate and University officials will adhere. For general information about the procedural steps and assignment of responsi bilities to be followed in the division, refer to the outline included in the flowchart below. B. The following hierarchy of decision - making will be followed in the tenure/promotion review process: i. a Director. ii. The Division Director will independently forward a recommendation to the SUAPP Head. iii. The Head will independently forward a recommendation to the Dean and the College of Arts and Sciences Tenure and Promotion Committee. iv. All three recommendations and written rationales go forward to the Dean and to the College Tenure and Promotion Committee. Step Responsibility Ac tion Due Date 1 Candidate Notify Division Director of Intent to apply for Tenure and/or Promotion May 1 2 Division Director Notify faculty to form division T&P committee and elect a chair; If insufficient size, identify additional committee membe rs (in consultation with candidate and T&P Committee) Late Spring Semester 3 Candidate; Division P&T Committee Independently develop a list of potential external reviewers Late Spring Semester 4 Division Director In consultation with T&P Committe e, May 30 DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 11 of 14 finalize list of reviewers and solicit their materials 5 Candidate Develop packet of research materials and vitae to submit to external reviewers May 30 6 Chair, T and P Committee Send letter, candid Division P&T Guidelines to reviewers (follow College Calendar for due date of June 5 7 Candidate Complete Dossier (following University, College, and Division guidelines and calendar); submit to Div ision Director September 8 Chair, T and P Committee Dossier, External Review Letters and Vitae, and School Head Letter); Submit to Division T&P Committee September 9 Chair, T&P Committee Schedule and lead Divi sion T&P Committee review meetings; draft committee recommendation for member review; finalize; submit Committee Recommendation with all materials to Division Director September/ October 10 Division Director dossier an d reviews and provide recommendation; provide rationale for selection of external reviewers (and Promotion and Tenure committee, if applicable); Submit to SUAPP Head October DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 12 of 14 APPENDIX 1 GUIDELINES FO R FACULTY PERFORMANCE Teaching Effectiveness Teaching is central to the mission and purposes of The University of Memphis and the Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration. Teaching enco mpasses classroom instruction, independent study direction, course development, concentration development, mentoring students in academic projects including internship experience, special projects, papers, and testing. Candidates will also document their professional development as a teacher. Creative and effective use of innovative teaching methods and curriculum innovations is encouraged as evidence of pedagogical development. Neither tenure nor promotion will receive favorable consideration in the abs ence of clear, convincing, and continuing evidence of at least an acceptable level of teaching and a potential for continued development. While excellence in teaching is a strong recommendation for both tenure and promotion, it cannot be considered in iso lation from scholarship and service. Since evaluation of teaching is a qualitative process, multiple sources of evidence will be employed. The candidate should organize, record, and exhibit evidence of his/her teaching efforts in such a manner that colle agues are able to assess his/her insights and achievements in instruction. Included should be a self - command of the subject matter, ability to organize and present it in a logical, thoughtful, and meaningful manner, and the p assessments from all classes taught during the probationary period in the dossier. The assessment instrument must be University approved, e.g., SETES . Additionally, candidates also can provide evidence of a record of teaching effectiveness through documentation of teaching awards received; course designs disseminated to others in the field; updated syllabi; class products and capstone reports; use of electronic innovations or other creative use of software or audiovisual materials; and activities related to continuing education, including short courses, workshops, symposia, and professional learning, creat ivity, and competence as a professional is especially helpful to the assessment process. Each candidate is encouraged to supply any additional data which he or she deems appropriate as evidence of teaching effectiveness and, if applicable, may include sup institutions. Research /Scholarship As a research university, The University of Memphis develops, integrates, dissemina tes, and applies knowledge. Faculty in the Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration are expected to maintain ongoing programs of research appropriate to the discipline of public administration which includes further specialized areas as nonprofit, health, urban administration, and public policy analysis. Research productivity is an essential criterion for tenure and/or promotion. There are two main streams of scholarship activity in the discipline of public administration. At one end of a continu um is disciplinary research, characterized by an aim to advance theoretical and conceptual knowledge as it relates to public administration. At the other end of the continuum is policy research that examines the place and context of public administration in its broader social, political, geopolitical, and economic context. Policy DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 13 of 14 research is shaped by the need to find new ways to approach public problems, improve accountability, and build civil society. Issues of inquiry include problems related to the a dministration of local, state, and federal governmental entities, nonprofit/community administration and development. Moreover, policy research creates new understandings about the human, physical, technological, economic, and political dynamics of public administration and public policy. Disciplinary research encompasses the scholarships of inquiry, integration, application, and teaching scholarship. Ideally, the balance among the subcategories is determined by the mix of faculty over time. Inquiry : This scholarship involves rigorous investigation aimed at the discovery of new knowledge within public administration, in its broadest sense. Evidence of inquiry includes scholarly publications, funded research, and presentations at profes sional meetings. Integration: The scholarship of integration makes meaningful connections between previously unrelated topics, facts, or observations, such as cross - disciplinary synthesis or an integrative framework within a disciplin e that results in a publication or presentation in a suitable form. Application: The scholarship of application adds to existing knowledge in the process of applying intellectual expertise to the solution of practical problems and res ults in a written work shared with peer professionals in the areas of public and/or nonprofit administration. Professionally related scholarship involves work with community organizations or governmental agencies to address a pressing problem or capacity building. Products from the scholarship of application can include such materials as program evaluations, opinion surveys, new administrative procedures, grant proposals, content - based seminars and workshops, provision of technical assistance, and process - focused interventions, which may not always involve a written product. Often, application research is more difficult to assess than more traditional scholarship which can be measured relatively more straightforwardly by the number of and quality of peer - reviewed products, such as journal articles. However, a similar level of critique can be applied to the scholarship of application as measured by impact on the agency and/or community, scope of the project, originality of design and methodology, generaliz ability of the results, connection to a broader literature and/or theoretical frame, visibility gained for the researcher and Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration through the dissemination process, significance of the work to the discipline, and peer review processes. The burden of responsibility is placed on the candidate to present documentation that supports such assessments. Teaching Scholarship: This scholarship focuses on transforming and extending knowledge about pedagogy, including appropriate textbooks, educational articles, and presentations about public administration education. The scholarship of teaching is not equivalent to teaching. Conversely, classroom teaching and staying current in the disciplin e are not relevant criteria for teaching scholarship. Ideally, a faculty member should achieve an intimate relationship between disciplinary and public policy research so that both professional understanding and administrative practices are advanced. Bec ause the public administration program is educating students to become professional administrators, a faculty member should be able to profess his/her experience in relation to administrative practice. DPNA T & P Guidelines Page 14 of 14 Service Service to the Division, School, University, profession, and community, and generally relates to those activities that support the sustainability of an organization or p rogram. Service to the community and profession is important to the image and understanding of professional education. In order to fulfill the mission of the public administration program, faculty members are expected to share service responsibilities. Inherent in professional degree programs is the requirement that faculty be recognized by the local, regional, national communities for their willingness to serve in advisory/consultative roles, both formally and informally. Community service is consider ed particularly important given the urban mission of The University of Memphis. Community service should directly support the goals and mission of the University, School, and Division. Local and regional service activities especially support the program in building community - university relationships, result in student opportunities, and often lead to future scholarship - based activities. Service to the profession includes association leadership; journal editorships; reviewing articles, books, or grant proposals; guest lecturing; and other appropriate activities. All faculty members are expected to perform basic citizenship service within the University. These activities include, but are not limited to, serving on division and school committees, advisi ng students, and participating on college and University committees. Some faculty members may accept key program citizenship responsibilities, such as Division Director, Advisory Committee Liaison, or Internship Coordinator. Other important service respo nsibilities include student recruitment, curriculum development and refinement, accreditation activities, program development, administrative supervision of staff, student mentoring, student admissions, and the recruitment, development, and oversight of th e part - time faculty. Other demanding citizenship activities can include serving in a leadership role in the Faculty Senate, membership on a specially appointed task force, an advisor to a student organization, and active membership on a divisional, school , college, or University search committee. In evaluating service, the following will be considered: percentage of time/effort devoted to service; functional roles in which service was provided; levels of professional competence employed; written product s that document the effort, including such outlets as monographs, reports, etc.; and accountability for the work.