#http://www.memphis.edu/testing/services/compass.php
COMPASS - Testing Center - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Testing Center About Services Accommodations Visitor Information Lambuth Testing Services Educational Testing Service ACT Residual COMPASS CLEP DSST Miller Analogies Test Oral Proficiency Interview Para Pro Assessment Proctor Services TEAS Home Testing Center Services COMPASS COMPASS COMPASS testing is a walk-in exam that is administered in Brister Hall Room 111 between the hours of 8:30 am - 11:00 am, on the scheduled test dates shown below. All examinees must bring two valid ID's - Driver's license, student ID, government issued ID, etc. COMPASS information for examinees taking test for admission into the University of Memphis The following group of students who wish to take the COMPASS test to fulfill admission requirements for the University of Memphis may do so after paying a $20 non-refundable fee through our secure online payment system Students should bring the following items to Brister Hall, Room 111, on one of the scheduled testing dates below: One valid ID - Driver's license, student ID, government issued ID, etc. Receipt for $20 Payment (Receipt must be a printed copy) Bring a physical copy of the letter from the Admissions Office (sent to you by e-mail or by US mail) to the Testing Center. COMPASS information for students who are ADMITTED to the University of Memphis The following group of students who wish to take the COMPASS test may do so after paying a $20 non-refundable fee through our secure online payment system . Students may call 901.678.2028 if they have questions regarding their ACT sub scores. Students challenging their ACT placement in Writing and/or Reading. Please Note: Students who wish to challenge both the Writing and Reading are advised to take both tests during one session to avoid an additional $20 fee. Students with ACT READING subscores below 19 are required to enroll in prescribed courses. Students with ACT ENGLISH subscores below 18 are required to enroll in prescribed courses Transfer students with non-transferable college level English credit. Non-Degree seeking students before enrollment in an English course. Students should bring the following items to Brister Hall, Room 111on one of the scheduled testing dates below. One valid ID - Driver's license, student ID, government issued ID, etc. Receipt for $20 Payment (Receipt must be a printed copy) COMPASS information for students being admitted to ANOTHER institution Students testing for other institutions who wish to take a COMPASS test at the University of Memphis Testing Center must: Assigned registration number for "Remote COMPASS" or have the forwarding institutions contact information. $25 administration fee that will be paid to the Testing Center One valid ID - Driver's license, student ID, government issued ID, etc. REQUEST TO HAVE YOUR COMPASS TEST SCORES SENT TO ANOTHER INSTITUTION? Those tested examinees that wish to have their Compass test scores forwarded to another institution, please print and complete the Compass Transfer Request form. Forms can be submitted in person at the Testing Center or by fax 901.678.2745. The following dates have been scheduled for COMPASS Walk-In Testing November 2015 December 2015 January 2016 Tuesday, November 17, 2015 Thursday, December 3, 2015 TBA Tuesday, December 8, 2015 COMPASS TESTING STUDY GUIDE Services Educational Testing Service ACT Residual COMPASS CLEP DSST Miller Analogies Test Oral Proficiency Interview Para Pro Assessment Proctor Services TEAS Contact Us Let us know how we may assist you. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/12/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .