#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/sociology.pdf
TENURE AND PROMOTION GUIDELINES Department of Sociology University of Memphis Fall , 2009 I. Overview The Department of Sociology is a community of scholars and teachers wh ich is dedicated to outstanding research, teaching, and service. Decisions about tenure and promotion are crucial to the maintenance of excellence in the department and larger university. The criteria discussed in this document supplement the University of Memphis Faculty Handbook (section III: Academic Freedom, Tenure and Promotion) a nd the College of Arts and Sciences Tenure and Promotion established by the University and College, candidates for tenure and promotion should become familiar with e ach set of requirements. Candidates for tenure and promotion are evaluated on their research, teaching, and service. Although it is not possible to provide a rigid and absolute criteria for evaluation, it is important to provide faculty and others with a w ell - defined set of criteria and expectations which will guide departmental recommendations on tenure and promotion. The following procedures and processes are designed to ensure an impartial evaluation of candidates. Departmental Tenure and Promotion requi rements are consistent with the departmental mission statement and overall objectives (see ). In terms of teaching , it is expected that candidates for tenure (and promotion) de monstrate that exhibits the ability to organize the subject matter and present it in logical and meaningful ways, (c) relates well to students, and (d) demonstra tes enthusiasm for teaching and learning. Effective teaching may be demonstrated through any (or all) of the following mechanisms: 1. Standard student questionnaires, such as the S ETE instrument; 2. - evaluation; 3. Peer evaluation of classroom teach ing; 4. Both solicited and unsolicited letters from students and/or colleagues that comment on teaching effectiveness; 5. Course syllabi, examinations, and assignments; 6. Development of new courses; 7. Teaching - related publications; 8. Creating relevant computer softwar e and audio - visual material; 9. Introduction of on - line courses; 10. Collaboration with students on publications or other projects; 11. Other out - of class teaching, advising, and mentoring (e.g., working with a student to arrange an internship); 12. Teaching awards and r ecognitions. In terms of research and scholarship , it is expected that candidates for tenure (and promotion) through the publication of independent research in refer eed journals that makes a valuable contribution to the existing literature. Another equally acceptable way is through the publication of original books (not edited readers). It is not expected that candidates for tenure and promotion must write books; howe ver, if they have published a book (or have one in press), then it normally would be equivalent to several journal articles, depending on the quality of the book and prestige of the publisher. With regard to refereed journals, some articles have more professional impact than others. Candidates should document the quality, importance, and influence of their publications to assist in the evaluation of their work. In addition to refereed articles and original books, a number of other professional co ntributions may demonstrate productive scholarship . T hese are not in lieu of refereed publications. They include: 1. Edited books and readers; 2. Technical reports, research monographs, and refereed chapters; 3. Conference papers and proceedings; 4. Internal and external g rants which facilitate research; 5. Invited guest lectures both inside and outside the university pertaining to the It is incumbent upon each candidate to demonstrate the quality and contribution of their pu blication outlets. In terms of service Service within the university may include: 1. Chairing/serving on departmental committees; 2. Holding administrative positions in the department (e.g., graduate coordinator); 3. Chairing or s erving on College or University committees; 4. Holding administrative positions in the College or University (e.g., director of a program); 5. Serving as a formal mentor for a colleague; 6. Writing professional recommendation letters for students (e.g., recommendations to enter doctoral programs, etc.) Service beyond the university may include: 1. Community service , if professionally - related ; 2. Serving as an editor, associate editor, bo ok review editor, editorial board member, or occasional reviewer for journals or publishing houses ; 3. Serving and/or holding office in a professional association, task force, or advisory group; 4. Serving on an external review panel for another department or u nit; 5. Serving as an external reviewer for candidates und er consideration for tenure and /or promotion. Candidates must demonstrate that service contributions enhance the university, community and/or discipline and demonstrate that they were acting in a professional capacity in these endeavors. II. Annual Reviews/Evaluations 1. As mandated by University policy, the Department Chair will evaluate the performance progress in research, teaching, and service, particularly as it relates to requirements for tenure and promotion. The Chair will provide an overall evaluation. 2. The Chair will discuss her/his assessment with the faculty member and place the comments and recommendations III. Mid - Tenure Reviews 1. The University mandates mid - term evaluations of all tenure - track faculty. It is designed to provide faculty members wi th information about the status of their progress toward tenure and promotion. The process mirrors the full tenure process, except that external letters are not requested. 2. As in cases of tenure and promotion, the faculty member is evaluated by both the T & P Committee and the Departmental Chair. The composition of the committee, including 3. The faculty member, with assistance from her/his representative, will prepare a d ossier that mirrors a full tenure dossier. The faculty member will be provided with a checklist of all documentation required by the Departmental T & P Committee. These requirements will be in line with University and College guidelines for tenure and prom otion, excluding external reviews. 4. The faculty member will submit a dossier to the Departmental Chair by February 15 th of representative will insure that all required items have been submitted and that the dossier is complete. Once the dossier is complete, it will be forwarded to the T & P Committee for consideration. 5. The T & P Committee will convene soon after the dossier is submitted to begin evaluation of the faculty member. T he Committee Chair is responsible for insuring that a by committee members. If there are multiple faculty members undergoing a mid - term evaluation, the committee may begin discussions of all faculty members at this meeting. Or they may schedule separate meetings for each faculty member. 6. The T & P Committee will meet a second time to study a written evaluation of the faculty member (that has been composed by committee m embers) and other supporting documentation. The committee will discuss the candidate and finalize a report that assesses the faculty member with respect to her/his progress toward tenure and promotion. The report will discuss strengths, as well as any area s of concern and what must be done to address those concerns. If there are multiple faculty members undergoing a mid - term evaluation, a separate meeting for each faculty member will be held to compose final reports. 7. Only those committee members who have at tended all meetings about the faculty member and studied the dossier may vote on the final report. However, committee members who have been unable to attend all the meetings may still provide input into the final report. And, as with tenure and promotion cases, a quorum for all T & P Committee meetings is 2/3 of all eligible voting members of the committee. 8. vote and report, which will include a detailed written statement with suppor ting evidence on the each faculty member under discussion. 9. assessment and supporting statement based on an independent reading of all materials, to the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. IV. Criteria for Tenure and Promotion to Associate Professor In general, an associate professor with tenure in the Department of Sociology is expected to: 1. Have six years of professional experience as sociologist; 2. Hold a doctorate in sociology; 3. Demonstrate that he/she is an effective teacher by providing evidence as discussed earlier (section I); 4. Demonstrate scholarly productivity by providing ev idence as discussed earlier (section I). The candidate has the responsibility for providing evidence of scholarly productivity (reprints of publications, copies of books, conference presentations, proceedings, etc.) for which the candidate seeks recognitio n. Scholarly productivity prior to employment at The University of Memphis will be viewed as indicative of scholarly potential suitable for being employed. However, major evaluative weight for recommending tenure and promotion will be placed on the fulfill ment of that potential by demonstrating a consistent trajectory toward achieving a national/international scholarly reputation during the tenure and promotion probation period. 5. Have at least a regional reputation within the discipline of sociology with the clear potential of achieving a national reputation. Reputation is assessed in part through positive evaluations from external referees and in departmental evaluations of scholarly productivity. 6. Present evidence that they will continue to be productive sch olars and effective teachers; 7. commitment to the discipline. V. Criteria for Promotion to Full Professor Promotion from associate professor o full professor is of a different magnitude that promotion from assistant to associate professor. Promotion to full professor occurs when faculty members have achieved national or international recognition in their respective discipline. More specifically, an occupant of the rank of Profes sor in sociology should: 1. Have at least ten years of professional experience as a sociologist ; 2. Hold a doctorate in sociology; 3. Demonstrate that he/she is an effective teacher by providing evidence as discussed earlier (section I). Moreover, he/she should mak e innovative and sustained contributions to teaching beyond effective classroom performance. This could take the form of having initiated new courses, advising large numbers of graduate students, publishing in the area of pedagogical development, and/or ot her contributions that indicate excellent teaching beyond classroom performance . 4. Demonstrate that he/she has achieved national or international prominence in the area of scholarship as evidenced by numerous high - quality, refereed publications (journal arti cles, book chapters, and/or books) that have made a significant contribution to the discipline. Although no attempt is made to define precisely the number of required publications, it is understood that there must be a sufficient number and quality to esta blish the candidate as a national or international scholar in her/his field. The most important criterion is not quantity of publications, but the reputation that has been generated through the publications. The candidate must demonstrate a quality scholar ly trajectory toward a national or international reputation. 5. Demonstrate that he/she has maintained high - quality service to the department, College, and University, as well as to her/his profession. Again, some of this service should be at the national le vel (e.g., editorial boards of respected journals, holding office in major sociological associations, etc.). VI. Application Process 1. Faculty members who wish to be considered for tenure or promotion during the next academic year must inform the Departmen tal Chair in writing by April 15 th . The Departmental Chair will then inform the Chair of the T & P Committee. 2. Candidates will be supplied with a checklist of the documentation required by the Departmental T & P Committee. These requirements will be in line with University and College guidelines. 3. Candidates must submit their dossier to the Departmental Chair by August 15 th . The have been submitted and that the dossier i s complete. Once the dossier is complete, it will be forwarded to the T & P Committee for consideration. 4. Material included in the dossier is determined by the criteria for tenure and promotion outlined in the University of Memphis Faculty Handbook, the Ten ure and Promotion Tenure and Promotion Criteria. 5. By May 15 th , the candidate will provide the T & P Committee with a list of 4 - 6 study who are outside the University of Memphis. Members of the T & P Committee will provide an additional list of 4 - 6 Memphis. The Departmental Chair will select a min imum of four (4) names to act as external reviewers. A minimum of four letters must be received. 6. minimize biases for or against the candidate when selecting qualified peers than one of the reviewers may have been a major advisor of or a collaborator with the the selection of each referee. 7. Outside letters of evaluation will be kept confidential to the maximum extent allowed by release that maintains confidentiality. The potential external referees must be informed of these procedures when the ir letters of evaluation are requested. 8. her/his scholarly work, a narrative statement, criteria, and any other materials deemed re levant. Reviewers will be asked to evaluate the particularly as these factors compare to scholars in the same field and at a similar stage of career development. 9. Candi dates may include other unsolicited or solicited letters in their dossier. 10. All letters and the dossier will be available to members of the T & P Committee and the Departmental Chair. It is expected that all members of the committee will study the candidate VII. Composition and Functioning of Departmental Committee 1. For tenure deliberations, the Committee consists of all tenured departmental faculty members. For promotion to Associate Professor, the Commi ttee consists of all tenured associate and full professors in the department. For promotion to Full Professor, the committee membership consists of departmental faculty who are tenured Full Professors. A quorum must be present to conduct business in any T & P Committee (see below, number 10). 2. According to University policy, the T & P Committee advises the Departmental Chair on tenure and promotion cases, and the Chair then makes an independent evaluation and recommendation. Thus, the Departmental Chair doe s no t vote in the T & P Committee and does not attend meetings of the T & P Committee. 3. The Departmental T & P Committee will elect a Chair before the end of the Spring semester to serve as its Chair the following academic year. The Committee will also elec t a representative to the College of Arts and Sciences T & P Committee when necessary. 4. According to College guidelines, the Departmental representative to the College T & P Committee may vote at the departmental level but must recu se her/himself at the College level when Sociology candidates are discussed. 5. department. The representative will consult with and assist the candidate as the candidate prepares a tenure dossier. The representative will also work with the full T & P Committee and the candidate to insure that the Committee has all the information it needs to make an informed decision. If, for instance, the Committee feels the dossier is mi ssing some information, the representative would inform the candidate and provide the candidate with an opportunity to respond. The representative is not necessarily an advocate for the candidate and it is clearly understood that the ultimate responsibilit y for the dossier resides with the candidate. 6. A candidate for full professor may also request a representative, but that is up to the candidate. 7. The T & P Committee will meet early in the f all semester to begin the evaluation of candidates. The Committee C hair is responsible for insuring that a careful examination of are multiple candidates for tenure or promotion, the committee may begin discussions of all candidates a t this initial meeting. Or they may schedule separate meetings for each candidate. 8. The T & P Committee will convene a second time to study a written evaluation of the candidate (that has been composed by committee members) and other supporting documentatio n. The committee will discuss the candidate and, if the committee is ready, vote on the candidate for tenure or promotion. If there are multiple candidates for tenure and promotion, a separate meeting for each candidate must be held for this second meeting . The vote will be by secret ballot. 9. Only those Committee members who have attended all meetings to review a candidate and studied the dossier and external letters are eligible to vote. Absentee votes are not permitted. 10. A quorum for all T & P Committee mee tings is 2/3 of all eligible voting members of a committee (i.e., 2/3 of all tenured faculty members in the case of a mid - tenure review or a case involving promotion from assistant to associated professor, and 2/3 of all tenured full professors in a case i nvolving promotion from associate to full professor). If a faculty member is on any type of leave or professional development assignment, then they are the 2/3 rule. 11. P articipation or voting by faculty spouses or close relatives in any tenure or promotion deliberations, even if they otherwise meet all necessary criteria for doing so , is defined by Tennessee law, Tennessee Code Annotate 8 - 31 - 100 et seq . 12. The Committee Chai recommendation along with a true count of the tenure and/ or promotion vote. The Committee Chair will also provide the Departmental Chair with a detailed written statement supporting its recommendatio n. This recommendation will comment of multiple candidates for tenure or promotion, a separate report will be completed for each candidate. 13. All T & P Committee deli berations will remain confidential. 14. The final report on each candidate will be forwarded to the Departmental Chair in sufficient time to meet College deadlines. 15. well as her/h is own recommendation and supporting statement based on an independent reading of all materials, to the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. 16. The candidate may not add or delete anything from the dossier following departmental review. 17. Candidates are ev aluated according to the T & P criteria in effect during the fall semester preceding the submission of their application for tenure or promotion, not at the time of their hiring . 18. If the Department Chair is being considered for tenure or promotion, the dos sier shall be transmitted directly from the Departmental T & P Committee to the Dean of the College. 19. The Department Chair gives the candidate a progress report after the T & P Committee has met and voted and after the Chair has written his/her recommendati on and se nt it to the college. VIII. Modification of T & P Guidelines 1. The Department of Sociology will review its T & P requirements/procedures during the spring semester . Any change in requirements/procedures can be effected through a simple majority vote of all tenured associate and full professors in the department. Untenured faculty members may participate in discussions related to modifying tenure and promotion standards, but they may not vote on such changes. IX. Timetable for Tenure and Promoti on Cases April 15 : Faculty members who wish to be considered for tenure or promotion inform the Department Chair in writing. May 15 : Candidates provide the T & P Committee with a list of 4 - 6 recognized scholars in ide the University of Memphis. Members of the T & P Committee provide an additional list of 4 - 6 scholars who are outside the University of Memphis. Shortly after receiving the lists, the Department Chair will select a minimum of four (4) names to act as ex ternal reviewers. August 15 : Candidates must submit their dossier to the Department Chair. Early Fall Semester : T & P Committee will meet to begin the evaluation of candidates. After the deliberations are complete, the T & P Committee Chair will forward a detailed report to the Department Chair, who will write her/his own independent report. Both set Office.