#http://www.memphis.edu/csd/about/history.php
History of the School - School of Communication Sciences and Disorders - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Student Organizations Resources News About Dean's Message History of the School Mission Statement Strategic Plan Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About History of the School History of the School 1947 Memphis Speech and Hearing Center created in the Memphis Medical Center - first of its kind in the Mid-South 1963 Construction of new building completed at present site (807 Jefferson Avenue) 1967 The Center became associated with Memphis State University, and an undergraduate degree is established 1969 The Department of Audiology and Speech Pathology was created as an independent program. The undergraduate program was closed, and a Master's Degree offered in Audiology and Speech Pathology 1970 First annual student-led Mid-South Conference on Communicative Disorders held 1972 Ph.D. program in Audiology and Speech Pathology began 1980 Tenth annual student-led Mid-South Conference on Communicative Disorders held 1984 Designated a Tennessee Center of Excellence in Higher Education - Creation of Center for Research Initiative and Strategies for the Communicatively Impaired (CRISCI) 1989 CRISCI was designated as an Accomplished Center of Excellence 1990 Twentieth annual student-led Mid-South Conference on Communicative Disorders held 1994 The School of Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology was established in the renamed University of Memphis 1997 The Memphis Speech and Hearing Center celebrated a half-century of excellence 1998 The School was ranked by US News and World Report as one of the top ten graduate programs both in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology 2000 Thirtieth annual student-led Mid-South Conference on Communicative Disorders held 2001 Clinical doctoral program in Audiology (Au.D.) began Chair of Excellence funded by the Plough Foundation was established 2002 Continued ranking by US News and World Report as one of the top ten graduate programs both in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology 2004 Continued ranking by US News and World Report as one of the top graduate programs both in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology 2007 Grand Opening of Memphis Speech and Hearing Center East at 4075 Park Avenue, Suite 201 2008 Continued ranking by US News and World Report as one of the top graduate programs both in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology 2010 Fortieth annual student-led Mid-South Conference on Communicative Disorders held First Study Abroad trip to the CAES School for the Deaf in the Dominican Republic, along with students and faculty from the School of Nursing 2011 Name of School changed to Communication Sciences and Disorders 2012 Continued ranking by US News and World Report as one of the top graduate programs both in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology A local chapter of the Student Academy of Audiology was established 2015 Moved to the Community Health Building, which is shared with the Loewenberg School of Nursing About Dean's Message History of the School Mission Statement Strategic Plan Apply Now Want to pursue a degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders? Find out how to apply. Support the School Help support the School with the funding of various initiatives. Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Learn about our in-house clinical training facility. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .