#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/communication.pdf
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS (2011) GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES FOR PROMOTION AND/OR TENURE COMPOSITION OF THE TENURE AND PROMOTION COMMITTEE The Department of Communication Tenure and Promotion (T&P) Committee shall consist of tw and tenure track faculty and a Full Professor appointed by the Department Chair. All tenured Associate and Full Professors are eligible to be elected/appointed. The T&P Committee will elect its own Chair. The Department faculty will also elect a representative to serve for a 2 year term on the College of Communication and Fine Full Professors prior to the e He or s he Communication candidates, but DOES participate and vote at the department level. The T&P Committee will be recons tituted with all Full Professors in the Department when a candidate applies for promotion to Full Professor. ANNUAL REVIEW The Department Chair is required to conduct annual reviews of all faculty and communicate his/her evaluations to each individual. T hese reviews are opportunities for tenured and untenured faculty members to be informed whether their performance is satisfactory, or if any improvements are necessary . The Department Chair, as encouraged by the Faculty Handbook and as a matter of professi onal courtesy shall seek These cumulative annual reviews are included and/or integrated in the documentation that is developed for tenure and/or promotion. When there is a recommendation for non - reappointment of non - tenured tenure - track faculty by the Department Chair, the Department Chair recommendation to the Dean. THIRD - YEAR REVIEW There will be a mid term re view of untenured candidates conducted by the T&P Committee and by the Department Chair. Exceptions will be made for faculty members who were given credit toward tenure when employed by the University. The third - year review should provide the faculty membe r with information about the status of his/her progress toward tenure and promotion, even though that information is not legally binding as to any subsequent tenure and/or promotion decisions. The procedure and Page 2 the format of the submission for the third - ye ar review will be the same as that used for tenure and promotion consideration, but will not involve external peer review. The T&P Committee will submit a written report to the Department Chair that specifies the criteria and, in particular, discusses bo th the strengths and weaknesses of the faculty provide meaningful feedback and direction to the faculty member to assist in his/her subsequent activities in these areas of perfo rmance. The Department Chair will also prepare a written report that addresses the strengths and weaknesses of the faculty member and the T&P Committee and the Department Chair will meet with the faculty member to discuss the reports. The faculty member may write a brief statement in response to the reports and the discussion of them. The purpose of this response is to allow the faculty member the opportunity to address any concerns or inaccuracies. The faculty member during may also describe plans for addressing any concerns raised. Every effort should be made during this review process to minimize any miscommunication between the parties involved. The reports and responses will be sent to the Dean. REQUIREMENTS FOR TENURE The candidate for tenure must meet the requirements for Associate Professor or have already attained that rank. Tenure recommendations involve judgments about a candidate's past accomplishments, future g rowth, and role as related to the Department's present and future priorities and needs, in addition to the standard criteria of teaching, research and/or creative accomplishments, and service. Candidates for tenure will be evaluated in terms of additional criteria as detailed in the section on Faculty Handbook of The University of Memphis. [ The following considerations are relevant to recomm endations concerning tenure, but in no way should be construed to mean that the candidate has a right to tenure: 1. The candidate's demonstrated competence and effectiveness as a university teacher; 2. The candidate's research and/or creative accomplishme nts; 3. The candidate's pattern of continued growth and development in his/her areas of specialization and assigned responsibilities; 4. The candidate's performance and willingness to perform needed Department services and functions; 5. The candidate's wil lingness and ability to work constructively with colleagues, staff, and students; Page 3 6. The candidate's abilities to meet the Department's present and future needs and priorities; 7. The constructiveness of the candidate's contributions to the growth and deve lopment of the Department. All candidates for promotion and/or tenure in the Department of Communication will be evaluated by the Department T&P Committee, which is advisory to the Department Chair, and by the Department Chair during his/her sixth consecu tive year in a full - time, tenure track faculty position, unless a specific written exception has been approved by the Department Chair, College Dean, Provost, and University President. A faculty member must make a formal application for promotion to the Department Chair, who will then inform the Chair of the T&P Committee of that application. EXTERNAL PEER REVIEW Tenure and promotion to associate or full professor require external peer review. The purpose of external peer reviews is solely to provide a n informed, objective evaluation of the quality of the scholarship, research or creative activity of the candidate. It is expected that the external reviewers will be selected from peer or comparable institutions with national reputations in the faculty me mbers discipline. Such reviews place a burden on the usually busy schedules of the evaluators. In order to obtain external reviews in a timely manner, the process of developing the lists of external reviewers, as described below, should be initiated during the Spring semester preceding the Fall tenure and promotion process. The candidate shall develop a list, normally four to eight names, of recommended peer reviewers from outside the University. The candidate may also submit a list (with justifications) of persons who may pose a conflict for consideration by the Chair of the Department and the Department Tenure and Promotion Committee. In addition, the Chair of the Department and the Department Tenure and Promotion Committee will develop a list of outside p eer reviewers. The Chair must select some of the names suggested by the candidate. The Department is solely responsible for supplementing the candidates list with additional reviewers. The dossier should contain at least four external reviews. If it is not possible to obtain four reviews, the reasons must be documented at the departmental level. For each reviewer, there should be an accompanying brief paragraph identifying her/his credentials and a statement regarding the nature of the relationship to the c andidate (if any). The external reviewers are expected to provide informed, objective evaluations rather than testimonials. Therefore, no more than one external reviewer can be a past mentor or collaborator. All reviewers should receive the same materials for evaluation; if not, an explanation should be included. Peer reviewers who have agreed to write letters of evaluation should be sent the following: the candidates curriculum vitae and a letter from the Department Chair to the reviewer, including a reque st for a written response to the question: How do you assess the quality of the scholarly and/or creative activity Page 4 of the candidate; a deadline for the written response; and a statement that the State of Tennessee has an Open Records Law and that the candi date has access to the outside peer evaluation document. TENURE AND PROMOTION DOSSIER CONTENTS The documentation submitted by the candidate should be as complete as possible for review by the T&P Committee, the Department Chair, and the external reviewe rs. Examples of scholarly and/or creative activities will be retained by the Department so as to be available for the College and campus - level reviews, if requested. Materials are to be assembled in spiral - bound folders with covers that are labeled with th e name of the applicant, Department, and College. The tenure and promotion application format to be forwarded from the Dean to the Provost are detailed on the University webpage at: [ The annual Facu lty Evaluation Forms can be found at: [ narrative cover statement that frames his/her teaching, research, and service in the context of the discipline, mission of the Department, College, and University. TABS I. Teaching Teaching is to be evaluated, rewarded, and encouraged in ways parallel to those for research and service. Teaching can occur in a number of varied co ntexts. Whereas some judgment must be made concerning a candidate's general teaching competency, the teaching performance of the candidate will be evaluated from multiple sources as it relates to graduate, upper division, and lower division instruction; le cture courses, small seminars and/or laboratory courses, and one - to - one instruction relevant to the direction of theses, dissertations, and special projects or creative activities; and the teaching of special subject matter. Teaching is documented as follo ws: 1. Statement of teaching philosophy 2. Summary of accomplishments and plans (2 3 pages) 3. Summary of student evaluations 4. Peer evaluation(s) of teaching Page 5 The relevant information that should serve as the basis for the evaluation of teaching perfo rmance, consists of: a. A list of all courses taught by the candidate at The University of Memphis and elsewhere; b. Course materials (e.g., syllabi and assignments); c. Systematic student evaluations for each course each semester, including the summer an d the most recent semester; d. Evidence of supervision of student projects and other forms of student mentorship e. Evidence of disciplinary or interdisciplinary program or curricular development. II. Research Faculty members of the Department of Communi cation are expected to produce sustained research activity. Such research can be demonstrated by a variety of activities such as the preparation of scholarly books or articles, papers, professional lectures or with films, videotapes, audiotapes, and/or the creation, direction and production of public communication. Research is documented as follows: Brief Summary of Accomplishments and Plans (2 3 pages) In judging the quality and extent of faculty research (and/or creative activity), the following types of information are relevant and useful: a. A list of all the candidate's publications and/or creative activity, including authored or edited scholarly books, textbooks, chapters in texts, journal articles, monographs, conference proceedings, book/article /production reviews, films, videotapes, audiotapes, and/or the creation, direction, and production of public communication and other related items produced or forthcoming; b. Papers presented at international, national, regional, state, and local professio nal meetings, the significance of the content, and the nature of the selection process; c. Exhibitions of work, including those juried or invited by nationally or regionally recognized members or groups within the communication discipline; d. Other items s uch as funded or unfunded research proposals, computer software development, or audiovisual media; e. Awards and formal recognition of work. III. Service Service can be provided in many different ways to many different groups. A faculty member is judged both by the nature and the quality of service to the Department, College, University, discipline, and community. Examples of service within the university include participation on committees and task forces, advising student Page 6 organizations, serving on the Faculty Senate, program administration, program development, advising, pro bono consulting, and other similar activities. Examples of service to the profession include activities that contribute to advancing the profession through association leadership, s erving as journal editor and on editorial boards, and guest lecturing, in addition to a wide variety of other activities. Examples of community service are primarily the sharing of professional expertise with local, regional, and national constituent group s. It must be understood that service can never constitute a documented as follows: Brief Summary of Accomplishments and Plans (2 3 pages) Evaluation(s) of Service ( Outreach/Advising/Mentoring/Administration) Candidates should submit a list of professional service performed or being performed and specify the nature of that service. It is especially important to know the extent of the candidate's involvement and the l eadership asserted in those service activities. It is also important to know the significance of the service and what happened as a result of the candidate's involvement. Quality of service will be judged by direct assessment, by the service, and by any outside professional opinion. The candidate should list any awards or symbols of recognition for outstanding service; testimonials from people involved with the service are helpful in evaluating such service. IV. University Curricu lum Vitae The University of Memphis Curriculum Vitae is a necessary and important part of the application package. A Microsoft Word format for the CV can be downloaded from: [ The CV is not to be enclose d in a folder or plastic sleeve so as to be easily removed and duplicated. V. Annual Faculty Evaluations And Other Pertinent Information POST - TENURE REVIEW There will be a review every sixth year for all tenured faculty members to be used to prepare a record for promotion to Full Professor and/or to determine Graduate Faculty membership. The review to determine faculty membership is conducted by the Graduate Policies Committee and the review for promotion will be conducted by the T & P Committee. Final Approved 9/27/2002 Page 7 Amendment approved 12/05/2002 Mbensman@Memphis.edu