#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/theatre_dance.pdf
January 24, 2003 D EPARTMENT T ENURE AND P ROMOTION G UIDELINES D EPARTMENT OF T HEATRE & D ANCE Revised May 20 10 The material contained in the Tenure and Promotion Guidelines for the Department of Theatre and Dance is consistent with the policies of the University and the Tenn essee Board of Regents, but has been tailored to the demands of the discipline. I. O VERVIEW The quality of the faculty of any university is maintained primarily through the appraisal, by competent faculty and administrative officers, of each candidate fo r tenure and promotion. Tenure at The University of Memphis provides certain full - time faculty with the assurance of continued employment during the academic year until retirement, or dismissal for adequate cause, financial exigency, or curricular reasons. Tenure does not confer the right to teach during the summer sessions, nor a guarantee of any specific salary. Tenure and/or promotion to a higher academic rank can be awarded only by the Tennessee Board of Regents upon the recommendation of the President of the University. No other individual or entity may confer tenure or promotion to a higher academic rank at the University. The tenure and promotion process begins at the department level and requires an understanding of the objectives and aims, not only of the department or appropriate academic unit, but also of the College and University. Criteria to aid in making these appraisals have been formulated by the individual departments and academic units, the individual colleges, the University, and the Tenne ssee Board of Regents. Departmental and College criteria are consistent with the policies of the University and the Tennessee Board of Regents, but are tailored to the demands of the specific discipline and are designed to allow each department to maintain the degree of specialization in its faculty that the profession requires. Departmental criteria are approved by the Dean, Provost, and President. College criteria are approved by the Provost and President. Written guidelines are kept on file in the depart mental office and will be distributed to faculty when they join the Department, when they come up for mid - tenure review, and when they apply for tenure and promotion. Guidelines will be redistributed to all affected faculty members whenever they are revise d and are available on the Web. In addition to departmental criteria, administrative criteria such as enrollment patterns and trends, curricular changes, program development, financial consideration and rank distribution, are considered in tenure and promo tion decisions. Therefore, a decision to deny has been unsatisfactory. A. The Primary Goals of the Department are to provide: 1. Public education designed to enrich the intellectual competence and achievement of the populace it serves (primarily students from the Mid - South geographic region) Page 2 2. An academic environment for educational, creative and scholarly pursuits 3. Professionally oriented education and training which emerges from a Liberal Arts context 4. Cultural and public service programs to improve and sustain the quality of life of the urban community in which we exist 5. Resources to the academic and public communities such as flow from an institution ded icated to the discovery, acquisition, dissemination, and preservation of knowledge B. The Principal Objectives of the Department are: 1. To provide levels of educational opportunity for theatre education and training. To this end we offer the B.F.A. and M.F.A. degrees, each degree having its own educational objectives. We wish to serve as the major theatre arts educational resource in the region, available to students with a wide variety of academic and artistic preparation and a diversity of educational goals. We do not, however, propose to offer conservatory styled programs. 2. To provide students with a comprehensive base of knowledge , appropriate to the educational level, which will allow them to function as educated persons as well as theatre artist s and practitioners. 3. To provide students with a set of professional standards, attitudes, and competencies which will allow them to function productively in the theatre profession. 4. To provide intellectual and creative challenges , appropriate to the educational level, which will foster artistic development and stimulate independent thinking. 5. To develop in the students a sense of personal confidence derived from successful practical experience at the appropriate developmental levels. 6. To provid e students with a which will assist them in developing not only an accurate self image but also techniques for maximizing their effectiveness in the profession. 7. To provide an educational environment which is co nducive to peer interaction and stimulation while at the same time providing for a measure of personal attention . To this end we wish to sustain moderate populations in the B.F.A. and M.F.A. programs. 8. To provide an effective faculty, one which draws cr eative and artistic sustenance from its environment, in order to serve the educational and developmental needs of its students. 9. To provide students with sufficient physical resources and administrative structure to service their educational and develo pmental needs. 10. To provide the Memphis community, and the Mid South region (western Tennessee, eastern Arkansas, and northern Mississippi), with a valuable cultural Page 3 and educational resource . C. General Philosophy Regarding Tenure and Promotion Criteri a 1. Teaching and Mentoring Effective teaching is an essential qualification for tenure and promotion, neither of which will be granted in the absence of clear evidence of a candidate's teaching ability and potential for continual development. Excellence in teaching is a strong recommendation for promotion, although it cannot be considered in isolation from scholarship and service. Teaching in a university setting can occur in a number of varied contexts. The nature of the disciplines of theatre and dance provides extensive opportunities for teaching outside the context of the classroom as well as inside. Evaluation of the contexts. e classroom, consideration will be given to teaching effectiveness at various levels of instruction, such as that designated by graduate, upper division, and lower division courses, and in various types of classroom settings, such as lecture courses, small seminars, and laboratory consideration will also be given to teaching contexts which are essential in the disciplines of theatre and dance. Representative activities include: (1) t he teaching that occurs within the context of the rehearsal and production process in the qualifiers and production practicum; (3) the evaluation of B.F.A. candidates in regu lar performance auditions and portfolio reviews; (4) the supervision and evaluation of individual student special projects; (5) one - to - one consultations and/or coaching sessions preparing students for current season productions in the Department of Theatre and Dance or outside the University and for local, regional, and national auditions, competitions, and conferences. 2. Research Typically, the research activity of faculty members in the Department of Theatre and Dance involves creative research in arti stic performance and production: choreography and dance performance; stage direction and stage performance; design and technical production in the areas of scenery, properties, lighting, sound, costuming, and technical direction. Other research activities in the disciplines of theatre and dance include scholarly publication of articles, chapters, or books; scholarly or professional lectures, seminars, and workshops; and presentations of papers and workshops at professional meetings. It is important both in the area of creative and academic scholarship that the significance of the venues and selection criteria for participation be described. A wide variety of other activities may also be involved in research appropriate to the disciplines of theatre and dance . Among many possibilities are research activities that involve application of professional expertise to the solution of practical problems as well as cross - disciplinary activities Page 4 in scholarship; pedagogy; graphic design; film, video, and audio producti on; and creative writing, such as the composition or adaptation of stage scripts. In evaluating research activity, the Tenure and Promotion Committee will be asked to make judgments concerning the quantity, quality, significance, usefulness, and creativity of the work. In artistic projects which have involved more than one person, the Committee will consider the effectiveness of the artist in a collaborative context. 3. Service Faculty members in the Department of Theatre and Dance are expected to perform service for the institution, the profession, and/or the community which relates to the expertise and creativity of each faculty member or to the needs of the Department, College, or University. Service activities may involve a variety of contexts. Within the Department, the College, and the University, service typically involves activities such as performing administrative duties, serving on appointed or elected committees, developing new or existing programs, academic advising, and consulting. Within the fields of theatre and dance, service typically involves activities in local, regional, or national professional organizations. The nature of the disciplines of theatre and dance also provides extensive and unique opportunities for service activities within the organizations within the community such as elementary and secondary schools, arts organizations, professional organizations or societies, civic groups, and charitable organization s. Community outreach is valued as contributing to the stated urban mission of the University of Memphis. II. A NNUAL R EVIEWS /E VALUATIONS s tenure and promotion review. The submission of cumulative annual evaluations and the integration of information from the annual reviews into the tenure and promotion documentation is a key element of tenure and promotion review. A. Evaluation by Chairs The Tennessee Board of Regents requires that department Chairs evaluate the faculty in their departments annually and that the results of these evaluations be used as a basis for decisions relating to tenure, promotion, recommendations for salary increases and other personnel actions, including decisions regarding renewal of tenure - track appointments. Each department develops, and revises when appropriate, criteria to be considered in the he departmental criteria and any departmental procedures for evaluation are approved by the Dean of the College and the Provost. This information is distributed to all new faculty and to all standard faculty evaluation instrument and planning document are available in the Office of the Provost or may be accessed on - line at onnelservice . Page 5 The annual review process is conducted in the spring semester and consists of two parts: using the previously agreed upon plan of activities for that year as the basis of the review, and (2) establishing a plan of activities for the next year, or for a longer period areas that further the mission of the University, including t eaching and advising, research and other scholarly or creative activity, public and university service. the full knowledge of the faculty member, should allow the faculty me mber to be informed of the findings prior to the transmittal of the conclusions of the review, and should allow the faculty member to verify that the review has been based on full and complete information. B. Faculty Planning During the spring semester, a ll faculty members submit a current curriculum vita, a narrative of their accomplishments during the past year (i.e., faculty activity report), and their plans for the upcoming year to their department Chair (or other appropriate head of their academic uni t if there is no department Chair). The Chair receives copies of student evaluations for each course that the faculty member has taught during the evaluation period and may also obtain peer input as discussed herein. Both the faculty member and the Chair s hould obtain and include appropriate, similar information from any other relevant department(s) whenever the faculty member is involved in interdisciplinary activities . year are c onsidered in the annual review, although a two - or three - year period of activities may be considered when appropriate . The departmental Chair reviews the material and then prepares a narrative and an evaluation in a Faculty Evaluation and Planning Report. The Chair provides an overall performance categories: (a) exceptional performance, (b) very good performance, (c) good performance, (d) improvement needed, and (e) failur e to meet responsibilities. The The depar tmental Chair uses the annual review process as the primary mechanism for evaluating faculty, for giving specific feedback to faculty on their performance, and for making recommendations on how to improve performance consistent with the and service. It is recommended that each department and school refer to the tenure and promotion guidelines as a guide to expectations for continued faculty performance. Faculty planning, both short and long term, begins in the spring during the annual review process. This is a joint endeavor carried out by the faculty member and Chair, with results acceptable to both; the plan will take into account academic freedom and the departmental or review process in the spring, is finalized in a formal planning report and submitted at the beginning of the fall semester. Faculty, however, have the option of revising their initial plan prior to formalizing the fall planning document. Informal meetings between the Page 6 Chair and each faculty member may be necessary to finalize the planning report. The member C. Curriculum Vitae The University of Memphis uses a standard curriculum vitae form available on disk in Microsoft Word format from the Office of Academic Personnel Services, Administration 405.The form can also be accessed in the same format at Faculty members must submit an on - line copy of their updated vitae each spring as part of their annual evaluation, and are encouraged to update these vitae throughout the year. The Department Chair, Dean and Provo st will have access to these on - line documents, as will affect faculty members. D. Student Evaluations Student evaluations are required for every section of every course, including summer sessions taught by University of Memphis faculty members including full - time and part - time instructors and graduate teaching assistants. Faculty members must include student evaluations (presently submitted online and called SETE) with applications for tenure and promotion. E. Internal Peer Review of Teaching An internal peer review of teaching is required for the mid - tenure review as well as the application for tenure and promotion. Untenured faculty are expected to invite a tenured faculty member into one class per semester. A tenured candidate applying for promotion mu st include four class visitation reports from tenured faculty in their dossier; these evaluations must come from classes taught in the three years immediately preceding application submission. The candidate may choose the course to be reviewed, but is enco uraged to choose a variety of class formats for review (lecture, studio, etc.) The class observer will choose the particular class to visit. At the beginning of the semester, the class instructor should give the class observer a syllabus and class calendar for the course to be visited. The class observer will then select from the calendar an appropriate class to visit. The observer must remain in the class for the entire class period. The department faculty must do their best to make themselves available fo r these reviews. In order to complete a comprehensive review of the candidate, the class observer will use the Guidelines listed below under VII. Documentation and Evaluation for Tenure and Promotion Effectiveness in: A. Teaching and Mentoring. The form us ed by the observer for the class observation response is available from the department. The class observer will give a copy of the evaluation to the candidate and to the chair of the department Tenure and Promotion Committee. The candidate should include t hese evaluations in the dossier submitted for mid - tenure review and for tenure and/or promotion. The candidate should also submit these evaluations for the annual evaluation by the chair. F Peer Input Page 7 Department Chairs are encouraged to seek peer input r egarding faculty members as a part of the evaluation process. The form of such input may vary from discussions between the Chair and the faculty to formal committees. Examples of successful peer input in various departments include: formal input from a rep resentative group of faculty either appointed by the Chair or selected by the faculty; formal input from a rotating group of tenured faculty; formal input from the departmental Tenure and Promotion Committee; and discussions between the Chair and each facu lty member in the department. In all of these models, documentation should be reviewed by peers. When a widely inclusive as possible; its membership should rotate amon g faculty members through the use of staggered terms. Although the majority of the committee members should be tenured, untenured faculty may also serve as members. When part of the annual review process, internal peer review committees within departments may also performance, and provide evaluations to department Chairs. G Faculty Evaluation and Planning Report Subject to the approval of the Dean and the Provost, each depa rtment may develop a set of procedures to be followed, criteria to be considered, and forms to be used in the which may be used or modified, is available in the Office o f the Provost. Department Chairs and others with evaluative and developmental responsibilities will be provided institutional support upon request (through the Office of the Provost) in devising strategies for evaluating, collecting and interpreting data, and acquiring reference materials. After the Chair has completed and signed the annual Faculty Evaluation and Planning Report, he or she will transmit the form to the faculty member. The faculty member is given an opportunity to read, sign, and/or offer a written response to the document. The Chair also may respond in writing to the written comments of the faculty member, and a copy of all such attachments will be included with the evaluation documents when forwarded to the Dean of the College for review an d when placed in the faculty not invalidate the results of the evaluation, but facult y members are encouraged to include comments and/or responses to the evaluation whenever the faculty member disagrees with the results of the evaluation. summative info rmation is provided to determine which individuals should participate in appropriate faculty development program(s). If it is determined that faculty development is needed, opportunities to address the need for improvement will be provided. Failure either to participate in a recommended program or to otherwise attain a required level of performance or credential may justify appropriate administrative action (Tennessee Board of Regents memorandum dated January 8, 1992). H Role of Evaluation in Renewal of Te nure - Track Appointments and Tenure and Promotion Decisions Page 8 tenure track appointment. The Department Chair may use the annual evaluation and review process as an opportunity to counsel tenure - track faculty during their probationary period. The mid - tenure review, discussed below, provides an additional opportunity for counseling tenure track faculty regarding any areas of concern and tion for tenure. - tenure review are a core part of of these evaluations and review should be included in the tenure a nd promotion file of all tenure - track faculty. recommendation on tenure or promotion. In addition to evaluation, the administrative assessment of need, enrollment trends, financial resources, rank distribution, and other such matters will also be considered in the recommendation to promote or tenure. III. M ID - T ENURE R EVIEWS Individual departments and academic units, with the involvement of their Dean, will conduct a major evaluation of untenured faculty in tenure track positions prior to their eligibility to apply for tenure. The purpose of the review is to provide the Department Tenure and Promotion Committee, the Chair, the Dean and the faculty member with information ab out her/his progress toward tenure and promotion. This evaluation is typically near the end of the the Chair. Each faculty member is responsible for presenting documenta tion (dossier) of contributions and accomplishments according to departmental or academic unit, college, and university guidelines. These materials are reviewed by the tenure committee of the department, by the Chair and by the Dean. The candidate is subse quently provided with information about his or her progress toward successful application for tenure. A. Procedures The procedure for the mid - tenure review should be the same as that used by the department for tenure and promotion review, with the excepti on of solicitation of letters from external peer reviewers. Deliberations and discussions of dossiers will take place in respect to quality as well as quantity within the context responsibilities. The dossier for the mid - tenure review should be the same as the one for tenure and promotion, with the exception of letters from external peer reviewers. The format of The University of Memphis Tenure and Pro motion dossier example should be used and contain information documenting evidence of quality in instruction, scholarship, and outreach/service (the term scholarship will be used to encompass research and creative activity). The inclusion of non - essential documents is discouraged. B. Evaluation Criteria - tenure accomplishments should be the same as those used for promotion to Associate Professor with tenure. The University criteria relate to instruction, scholarship, and outreach/service. The candidate should have also Page 9 demonstrated a willingness to work with colleagues in supporting the goals and missions of the Department, College, and University. The c andidate should refer to the Faculty Handbook criteria. Each department should determine the level of instructional effectiveness, scholarship and outreach/service activities tha t are appropriate to support its particular goals and missions, consistent with College and University criteria. C. Feedback The Committee Chair will prepare a written report based on the recommendation of the Tenure and Promotion Committee members that i s submitted to the Department Chair or instruction, scholarship, and outreach/service. The report should provide meaningful feedback and direction to the faculty member to assist in planning and organizing subsequent work activities. The Department Chair will prepare a written report that addresses the strengths and weaknesses of the facult outreach/service. A copy of the two reports will be presented to the faculty member. The Tenure and Promotion Committee Chair, the Department Chair or equivalent, will meet with the candidate to discuss the reports. The faculty member may write a brief statement in response to the discussions and reports obtained from the Department Tenure and Promotion Committee and the Department Chair. The purpose of this response is to allow the faculty member the opportunity to address any concerns or inaccuracies in the reports. The faculty member may also describe plans for addressing concerns raised during the mid - tenure review. In addition, the response ensures that all participants in the process understa nd the nature and context of the feedback, thereby minimizing Department Tenure and Promotion Committee and the Department Chair, and the The Dean shall then prepare a written report and, as necessary, may meet with the candidate to discuss the results of the third - year review. IV. E LIGIBILITY FOR T ENURE Candidates for tenure must meet the requirements for the rank of Associate Professor. The granting of tenure, however, merits considerations above and beyond those relevant for making recommendations concerning professional rank. The candidate shou ld not assume a right to tenure. Rather, tenure recommendations involve judgments about a candidate's Department's present and future priorities and needs. These c onsiderations go beyond the expectation of achievement in research or artistic production. At the time of the tenure decision, the candidate must demonstrate his or her significance to the ongoing life of the Department. Page 10 The following considerations are re levant to recommendations concerning tenure: 1. The candidate's competency as a college teacher and demonstrated excellence in some aspect or form of teaching; 2. The candidate's research, scholarship or artistic accomplishments; 3. The candidate's patt ern of continued growth and development; 4. The candidate's performance of assigned Department responsibilities; 5. The candidate's willingness to perform needed Department services and functions; 6. The candidate's willingness and ability to work const ructively with colleagues and students; 7. The relationship of candidate's abilities and knowledge to the Department's present and future needs and priorities; 8. The constructiveness of the candidate's contribution to the growth and development of the D epartment. A faculty member with the rank of assistant professor or higher who has completed a six - year probationary period (unless otherwise prescribed in writing and approved by the Dean and Provost) must make application for tenure. The faculty member m ust notify the Chair of the Department of his / her intention to apply in the spring of the fifth year to facilitate external peer reviews. The completed dossier should be submitted in the fall semester of the sixth year. Candidates for tenure must meet el igibility requirements for promotion to associate professor or have already attained that rank. Stated another way, the minimum qualifications for tenure are equal to or exceed those for promotion to associate professor. Tenure applications receive one of two responses: tenure may be granted; or tenure may be denied. Re - application for tenure is not possible and the seventh year, or other final year following application for tenure, will be terminal if tenure is denied. Faculty holding temporary appointmen ts are not eligible for tenure. Also, faculty may not be tenured in an administrative position. A faculty member will retain tenure in their former faculty position when appointed to an administrative position, and those otherwise eligible for tenure and w ho also hold an administrative position may earn tenure in the faculty position only. V. C RITERIA FOR P ROMOTION Faculty members may apply for promotion whenever they believe they meet the established criteria. However, faculty members are advised, but not req uired, to confer with their Department Chair before submitting applications for promotion. A. Criteria for Promotion to Assistant Professor To be eligible for promotion to Assistant Professor or to be hired at the rank of Assistant Professor a candidate m ust have a terminal degree or equivalent professional credentials in his or her field. The Department of Theatre and Dance, in accordance with our professional accrediting organization, the National Association of Schools of Theatre, Page 11 recognizes the M.F.A., D.F.A., and Ph.D. as terminal degrees. Exceptions to the minimum qualifications for the rank of Assistant Professor can be recommended by the exemplary in some way. Candid ate must evidence potential ability in instruction and / or public service and / or research. Candidate for promotion to Assistant Professor must evidence good character, mature attitude, and professional integrity. B. Criteria for Promotion to Associate Professor Candidate must have demonstrated a commitment to and competence in teaching, research, and service and have achieved recognition of excellence in one or more aspects of these areas related to their specialization. Candidate for the rank of Associ ate Professor is expected to have met the requirements for, and have been in rank as, Assistant Professor for at least five years, but tenure in rank alone is no argument for promotion. Candidate must present documented evidence of high quality professiona l productivity which is leading to national recognition in the academic discipline. Candidate must also have demonstrated the ability to direct student research and/or performances or productions. Candidate for promotion to Associate Professor must evidenc e good character, mature attitude, and professional integrity. C. Criteria for Promotion to Full Professor Candidate must present documented evidence of ability in instruction and/or public service and/or research. Candidate must have earned a doctorate o r equivalent terminal degree (e.g. M.F.A.) from an accredited institution in the instructional discipline or related area plus at least ten years appropriate professional experience (excluding experience concurrent with and in the same institution where st udies were taken for an advanced degree) in the instructional discipline or related area. Tenure in rank alone, however, is no argument for promotion. Candidate must present documented evidence of sustained high quality professional productivity and nation al recognition in the academic discipline. Candidate for promotion to Full Professor must evidence good character, mature attitude, and professional integrity. The absence of teaching excellence and superior contribution to student development or the absen ce of scholarly or creative activity may prevent advancement to full professor. Since there is no higher rank, promotion to professor is taken with great care and requires a level of achievement substantively beyond that required for associate professor. T his rank is not a reward for long service; rather it is recognition of superior achievement within the discipline with every expectation of continuing contribution to the University and the larger academic community. Page 12 VI. A PPLICATION P ROCESS A. Preparing for Tenure and Promotion Candidates for tenure and/or promotion should work closely with their department Chairs to define goals and to establish documented evidence of effectiveness to be sure that they are meeting the obligations and performing at the le vel of expectation of the items such as syllabi, student evaluations, and selected course materials to support teaching; copies of published articles or books, or writ ten reviews and evaluations by document scholarship; and documentation of service and outreach activities. All such ng and continuously updated file (dossier), the specific content of which will vary according to discipline. B Procedures for Tenure and Promotion As previously stated, the tenure and promotion process begins at the departmental or other academic unit lev Promotion Committee. This committee forwards its recommendations to the Department Chair or other appropriate head of an academic unit, who then reviews the application and forwards both the c application is then reviewed at the College level by the College Tenure and Promotion Committee; followed by a recommendation from the Dean. All four recommendations are subsequently forwarded to th e Provost. In the event that a Chair/head of an academic unit or a Dean is not available to make a recommendation on a tenure or promotion application, the Provost may appoint a substitute from within the appropriate college or accept the application for c onsideration without such recommendation. The office of the Provost will provide all potential candidates with a calendar for Tenure and Promotion indicating schedules and deadlines. C. Department Committee Candidates for tenure and/or promotion should su bmit their applications and supporting papers to their Department Chair, who will transmit the documents directly to the t criteria (Tennessee Board of Regents, University, College and Department). The judgment and assessment of the the department level is critical because of their familiarity with the candidates and their knowledge of the qualifications necessary for their particular discipline. The departmental committee will return the applications and supporting papers to the Department Chair / head of academic unit along with its written rationale for those recommendat ions. D, Department Committee Composition The Department Tenure and Promotion Committee consists of a committee of the whole of tenured Associate and Full Professors. For promotion to the rank of Full Professor, only a subcommittee of tenured Full Professo rs will make the recommendations. The Committee will elect its own Chair. A person who wishes to be considered for promotion or tenure will not be eligible to serve on either the departmental or the Page 13 College Committee. Voting will be by secret ballot, and t he exact outcome of the vote will be recorded on the recommendation form. The faculty of the Department of Theatre and Dance will elect one member to serve a term of one year as representative to the College Tenure and Promotion Committee. Voting will be by secret ballot administered by the Department Chair and Administrative Associate. Single Participation: No faculty member can participate or vote in deliberations involving the same individual at more than one Tenure and Promotion Committee level, includ ing the University Tenure and Promotion Appeals Committee, in a given academic year. Therefore, the individual elected to the College Tenure and Promotion Committee may vote only at the departmental level. E. Department Chair The Department Chair will mak further recommendations, and then, in cases involving promotion only, meet with the candidate to transmit the recommendations which the committee and the Chair have made and reasons for those recomm endations. When the Chair meets with the candidate being considered for tenure (and possibly also promotion), he/she should restrict his/her conversation to the recommendations that have been made, but should not, at this time, address the reasons for the recommendations. Application for promotion may be withdrawn at this point. The major share of the responsibility for appraising a candidate is the responsibility of the Department Chair and the Department committee, who must determine not only present qual ifications for tenure and promotion, but also determine the potential for development, an important consideration if the vitality of the University is to be in teaching , research, and service; it must be a thorough evaluation of these activities, supported by substantial evidence. If a Department Chair is being considered for promotion or tenure, the recommendation of the Department committee will be transmitted directl y to the College Dean. F. Dossiers Candidates who are not sure what to include in their dossiers or how to organize the material are encouraged to seek help from their Chairs and colleagues, particularly those who have served on Tenure and Promotion Com mittees. However, the following recommendations represent a general set of procedures designed to establish a minimal degree of uniformity across colleges and schools. Variability may occur among colleges in the implementation of these recommendations due to differences in the structure and/or size of colleges and schools. Candidates prepare dossiers for review in consultation with the Department Chair. The materials specified in The University of Memphis example dossier must be included. NAME) 200_ - 200_ Page 14 Tab I. SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS Recommendation Signature Page Appointment History (see p 109 of Faculty Handbook for form) Tab II. COLLEGE/SCHOOL RECOMMENDATION Statement from the Dean Statement from the College/School Committee Tab III. DEPARTMENT/AREA RECOMMENDATION (if applicable) Statement from the from Department Chair/Area Head Statement from the from Department/Area Committee Tab IV. EXTERNAL EVALUATIONS External Peer Evaluations Summary of Credentials of External Evaluators (see p 110 of Faculty Handbook for sample form) Copy of Solicitation Letter to External Evaluators (see p 112 of Faculty Handbook for sample form) Tab V. INTERNAL EVALUATIONS Initial Appointment Letter Annual Evaluations Third - Year Evaluation by Department and any candidate response Third - Year Evaluation by College (if applicable) Tab VI. INSTRUCTION Summary of Teaching Responsibilities/Philosophy (normally two to three pages) Summary of Student Evaluations ( see p 113 of Faculty Handbook for form) Peer Evaluation(s) of Teaching Honors and Awards Tab VII. RESEARCH/SCHOLARSHIP /CREATIVE ACTIVITY Brief Summary of Accomplishments and Plans (normally two to three pages) Internal Grants and Contracts External Grants and Contracts Peer Evaluation(s) of Research/Scholarship/Creative Activity Honors and Awards Page 15 Tab VIII. SERVICE/OUTREACH/ADVISING/MENTORING/ ADMINISTRATION Brief Summary of Responsibilities and Accomplishments Internal Grants and Contracts External Grant s and Contracts Peer Evaluation(s) of Service/Advising/Mentoring/Administration Honors and Awards Tab IX. UNIVERSITY Curriculum Vitae Tab X. OTHER PERTINENT INFORMATION C. Applications Requests for change of status in applications for tenure and promoti on are addressed in a letter to the department Chair. No form is specified for this letter, yet it should be concise and complete as possible. Accompanying the letter should be one copy of all that the candidate believes will strengthen and support the application. Great care should be taken in the preparation of the dossier. The dossier may be amended, edited or refined by the ion Committee, at any time prior to the final vote by this committee. This requirement insures that each reviewing authority will examine exactly the same evidence in making decisions on tenure and/ or promotion application. D. External Peer Review Tenure and promotion to associate or full professor require external peer review. The purpose of external peer reviews is solely to provide an informed, objective evaluation of the quality of the scholarship, research or creative activity of the candidate. It is expected that the external reviewers will be selected from peer or comparable place a burden on the usually busy schedules of the evaluators. In order to obtain extern al reviews in a timely manner, the process of developing the lists of external reviewers, as described below, should be initiated during the Spring semester preceding the Fall tenure and promotion process. The candidate shall develop a list, normally four to eight names, of recommended peer reviewers from outside the University. The candidate may also submit a list (with justifications) of persons who may pose a conflict for consideration by the Chairs of the Department and the Department Tenure and Promoti on Committee. In addition, the Chairs of the Department and the Department Tenure and Promotion Committee will develop a list of outside peer reviewers. The Chairs must select some of the names suggested by the candidate. The Department is solely responsib le for supplementing the external reviews. If it is not possible to obtain four reviews, the reasons must be documented at the departmental level. For each reviewer, there should be an accompanying brief paragraph identifying her/his credentials and a statement regarding the nature of the relationship to the candidate (if any). The external reviewers are expected to provide informed, objective evaluations rather than testim onials. Therefore, no more than one external reviewer can be a past mentor or collaborator. Page 16 All reviewers should receive the same materials for evaluation; if not, an explanation should be included. Peer reviewers who have agreed to write letters of eva luation should do you assess the quality of the scholarly and/or creative activ deadline for the written response; and a statement that the State of Tennessee has an Open Records Law and that the candidate has access to the outside peer evaluation document. In addition to the minimum University requirements li sted in the paragraph above, the contents of the packet sent to external peer reviewers for the Department of Theatre & Dance must include the same information contained in the Research and Scholarly / Creative Activities section of the dossier (see Sectio n VII.B.). Upon receipt of the letters from the external reviewers, the Department Tenure and Promotion Committee deliberates and prepares a written recommendation regarding the College and University criteria for promotion and/or tenure. N OTE : In the case of live performance, outside peer review is acknowledged to be problematic. The temporal and spatial nature of both theatre and dance requires that the viewer be present. (Although videotapes, photographs, audiotapes, and slides may provide a record of the performance or production, they cannot act as substitutes for the event itself.) Depend research, either on - site visitation or off - site review of documentation may be involved. VII. D OCUMENTATION AND E VALUATION FOR T ENURE AND P ROMOTION E FFECTIVENESS IN : A. Teaching and Mentorin g 1. In making judgments about teaching performance, the Chair and Tenure and Promotion Committee will use internal peer review of teaching evaluations, and may also use classroom visitation, student evaluations (SETE) and interviews with present and form er students. In evaluating teaching performance, the Department Chair and Tenure and Promotion Committee will attempt to ascertain the following: a. Command of subject matter; b. Record of continued growth and development in area of specialization and as signed responsibility; c. Ability to organize subject matter and present it in a logical and meaningful way; d. Ability to relate effectively to students; e. Ability to motivate students and stimulate student creativity; f. Creative use of innovative t eaching methods; curricular or program innovations and development; Page 17 g. Standards for and expectations of students; h. Fairness and objectivity in instructional procedures; i. Effectiveness of teaching as evidenced by the quality of student work. 2. Fo r the period of years to be evaluated in the tenure and promotion review, it is expected that the candidate will include in the documentation of teaching activities the following items: a. hing objectives, methods, and accomplishments and reflecting the contribution of teaching accomplishments to the academic goals of the Department; b. A list of all courses taught by the candidate at The University of Memphis and elsewhere; c. Representative course materials for the above courses (e.g. course syllabi, assignments, examinations, bibliographies, etc.); d. Systematic student evaluations for each course each semester, including summer sessions (candidate need only submit the Summary Sheet for eac h course see p. 113 of Faculty Handbook for form); e. An account of supervision of student projects and other forms of mentoring students (for instance, academic advising, serving on B.F.A. advisory committees for performance auditions and portfolio revie ws, serving on M.F.A. candidate advisory committees, preparation of students for productions, competitions, auditions, etc.); f. Peer evaluation(s) of teaching from present and former colleagues; g. Honors and awards received for teaching merit; h. Grad e distributions for courses taught, and, if desired, an assessment of the relationship of grade distribution to the nature of the course. 3. Additional types of documentation which are relevant to the evaluation of teaching performance may include : a. Su pport testimony from present and former students regarding the faculty career; b. production work may include live presentations, videotape, audiotape, sketches, slides, renderings, technical drawings, models, etc.; samples of academic work may include copies of student papers, original play scripts or stage adaptations, or special projects); c. Explanatory list of post - course activities or career successes of former students which relate directly to subject and skills taught by instructor; d. Pedagogical scholarship including creative and effective use of innovative teaching methods and curricular innovations; e. A brief narrative summary of the trends and perceptions evident in student evaluation forms for the past five year period. Page 18 B. Research and Scholarly/ Creative Activities 1. For the period of years to be evaluated in the tenure and promotion review, it is expected that the candidate will include in the documentation of research and scholarly/creative activities the following items: a. A list of all the candidate's research produced and in progress; b. A self - evaluation of research activities reflecting objectives, methods, and accomplishments; c. A self - evaluation reflecting collaborative influence in projects involving more than one person; Note : Typically, theatre and dance projects require collaboration among various artists, and evidence of ollaborative influence on the direction and final outcome of the project may not be self - evident. The candidate is asked, therefore, to specify his or her part in the project and to illustrate collaborative influence in the success of the project. d. A se lf - evaluation reflecting the significance of research activity to the mission of the Department of Theatre and Dance, to the discipline and/or the profession; e. Information (significance and acceptance criteria) concerning the venues, journals, etc., in which the research was presented; f. Evidence of influence of research activities; g. Reviews of productions, performances, concerts, books, articles, etc.; h. Honors, awards, and formal recognition for research; i. Internal and / or External Grants a nd Contracts received for research / scholarship / creative activity; j. Tangible products of research (e.g. live performance and production; documentation (e.g. slides, recordings) of live performances and productions; copies of published articles, chapt ers, or books; sketches, renderings, models, and technical drawings); k. Peer evaluation(s) of research/scholarship/creative activity (e.g. narrative critiques by peers and respected assessors of the intangible achievements Page 19 and values which are a distinct ive element of a live performance art form). C. Professionally Related Service 1. Types of professionally related service includes the following: a. Service to the University; e.g., participation and leadership roles in departmental, college or school and university committees; participation in university governance; b. Administrative service; advising students; recruitment activities; service to student organizations; other related activities; c. dership roles in professional organizations at state, regional, or national levels; Page 20 d. Service to the larger society; e.g., presentations related to the discipline; professional advice and counsel to groups or individuals; other types of service, partic 2. For the period of years to be evaluated in the tenure and promotion review, it is expected that the candidate will include in the documentation of service activities the following items: a. A list of all servi ce activities performed or being performed for the Department of Theatre and Dance, the College of Communications and Fine Arts, The University of Memphis, the disciplines of theatre and dance, and the community; b. Internal and / or External Grants and C ontracts received for service / outreach / administration; c. Peer evaluation(s) of service / advising / mentoring / administration; d. Honors and awards received for service / outreach / advising / mentoring / administration; e. A self - evaluation of se contributions. Note involvement and the leadership asserted in cited service activities. It is important to know also the si gnificance of the service and what happened as a for whom? What was required of the candidate to perform the service? 3. Additional types of documentation which are relevant t o the evaluation of the quantity and quality of service activities may include : a. Support testimony from others participating in the service activity; b. Support testimony from those for whom the service was performed; c. Representative materials su ch as programs, newspaper articles, or tangible products of service activity such as videotapes, recordings, photos or slides. D. Other Factors for Consideration Other types of evidence and examples of documentation that may be considered include the foll owing: Professional growth; e.g., courses taken for credit, courses audited, seminars attended and independent study activities (much of this evidence will be submitted on the section on teaching, service, research, and scholarly/creative activity. Page 21 VIII. M ODIFICATION OF T&P G UIDELINES A. Review and Modification. These guidelines will be reviewed at any time by the request of a full - time faculty member in the Department or as charged by the Dean, Provost, or upper administrator. Changes in the guidelines should not be undertaken lightly, and require a 2/3 (two - thirds) majority approval of the entire tenure track faculty of the Theatre & Dance Department, both tenured and untenured. Page 22 Flow Chart for Department of Theatre & Dance Tenure and promoti on Procedures STEP Responsibility Action Due Date 1 Candidate Written notification to Chair of Intent to Apply for Tenure and/or Promotion March 15 2 Chair Notify faculty to elect Chair of T&P Committee. If insufficient size, identify additional members (in consultation with Candidate and T&P Committee) April 1 3 Department Committee, Candidate, Chair Independently develop a list of potential external reviews Late Spring Semester 4 P&T Committee Chair In consultation with the Chair finalize a list of re viewers and solicit their agreement to review End of Spring Semester 5 Candidate Develop a packet of research materials and vitae to submit to external reviewers June 6 Chair and P&T Guideline s to reviewers July 15 7 Candidate Complete Dossier (following University, College and Department guidelines and calendar); submit to Chair of Department September 8 8 Chair Dossier, External Review Letters, Vitae,) Sub mit to P&T Committee September 9 T&P Committee Chair Schedule and lead Department T&P Committee review meetings; draft committee recommendation for member review; finalize; submit Committee recommendation with all materials to Chair September / October 1 0 Chair dossier and reviews and provide recommendation; provide rationale for selection of external reviews (and outside members of the Office October