#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/people/bios/thomas-nenon.php
Thomas Nenon - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact People Core Faculty Visiting Scholars Instructors Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Home Philosophy People Thomas Nenon Thomas Nenon Professor, Acting Department Chair &amp; Dean, College of Arts &amp; Sciences Phone 901.678.2156 Email tnenon@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.4365 Office 316 Clement Hall, Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours Call for Hours Website CV About Dr. Nenon Professor Nenon (PhD, University of Freiburg) joined the department in 1985. He worked as an editor at the Husserl-Archives and instructor at the University of Freiburg before coming to University of Memphis. His teaching and research interests include Husserl, Heidegger, Kant and German Idealism, Hermeneutics, and the philosophy of the social sciences. He has served as review editor for Husserl Studies, as a member of the Executive Committee of the Society for Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy, and as Director of the Center for the Humanities. His current research interests include Husserl's theories of personhood and subjectivity and Kant and Hegel's practical philosophy. Selected Publications Objektivität und endliche Erkenntnis: Kants transzendental¬philosophische Theorie der Wahrheit, Freiburg/Munich: Alber Verlag 1986. Edmund Husserl, Husserliana, Vol. XXVII: Aufsätze und Vorträge 1922-37, co-edited with Hans Rainer Sepp from shorthand manuscripts, with an introduction by the editors, Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers 1989. Edmund Husserl, Husserliana, Vol. XXV: Aufsätze und Vorträge 1911-21, co-edited with Hans Rainer Sepp from shorthand manuscripts, with an introduction by the editors, The Hague: Nijhoff 1987. "Husserl's Conception of Reason as Authenticity" in Philosophy Today 2004, pp. 65-72. "Freedom, Responsibility and Self-awareness in Husserl" in Neues Jahrbuch für Phänomenologie und phänomenologische Philosophie (2002), pp. 1-21. Originary Temporality, the Origin of Modality, and the Question of the Limits of Toleration in Heidegger's Being and Time" in: C. Monteagudo and R. Rizo-Patron (eds.), Interpretando la Experiencia de la Tolerancia (Lima: Fondo Editorial de la PontificiaUniversidad Católica del Perú 2006), pp 107-122. "Two Models of Foundation in the Logical Investigations" in: Bert Hopkins (ed.), Husserl in the Contemporary Context: Prospects and Projects for Transcendental Phenomenology, Dordrecht: Kluwer 1997, pp. 159-177. "Freedom, Responsibility, Character: Kant's Concept of Personhood," in Jahrbuch für Recht und Ethik I (1993), pp. 159-168. "Systematic Assumptions in Dilthey's Critique of Metaphysics," in International Studies in Philosophy, 22 (1990), pp. 41-57. Recent &amp; Upcoming Presentations "Confrontations with Modernity: Hegel, Husserl, and Heidegger" at an international conference sponsored by the Indian Council of Philosophical Research, New Delhi 2009. "Feelings and Reason in Husserl's Lectures on Ethics 1920-24" at OPO III, Chinese University of Hong Kong, 2008 and the international conference "Space of Phenomenology: on the 150th Anniversary of Edmund Husserl" in Moskow 2009. "Reason in Husserl's Phenomenological Philosophy": Three Sessions at the Inaugural Workshop of the Symposia Phaenomenologica Asiatica, Master Class in Phenomenology for Asian Scholars, Hong Kong 2007. "Transitions between Worlds:The Centrality of the New School for Social Research in the Philosophical Life of Werner Marx" at a conference "The Golden Age of the New School," New York 2007. "The Limits of Applied Ethics and the Specific Role of Phenomenology in Biomedical Ethics" at the international conference "The Future of Applied Phenomenology" at Seoul National University, Seoul 2007. "Worldhood and Finitude: Some Remarks on Ronald Bruzina's Phenomenological Beginning: Edmund Husserl and Eugen Fink 1927-1938" at the Society for Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy, Philadelphia 2006. "Wisdom as Deciding Which Life to Love: Heidegger's Appropriation of Aristotle" at the international conference Philia and Sophia: Ten Years of Phenomenology in Hong Kong, Chinese University of Hong Kong 2006. "The Necessity and Impossibility of a New Beginning in Philosophy through Phenomenology" at the Inaugural Conference of the Archive for Phenomenology and Contemporary Philosophy at the Chinese University of Hong Kong 2006. "Seebohm's Variations on Husserl's and Dilthey's Theories of Understanding" at Society for Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy, Salt Lake City 2005. "Some Differences between Kant's and Husserl's Conceptions of Transcendental Philosophy" at the Korean-American Phenomenology Meeting, Memphis 2004 (also presented as a lecture at Ritsumeikan University, Kyoto 2004 and at the Second Meeting of the Organization of Phenomenological Organizations, Lima 2005). People Core Faculty Visiting Scholars Instructors Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .