#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/selfserv/errors.php
Errors and Problems - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Home Registrar Students Errors and Problems Errors and Problems Below is a list of errors you might encounter when trying to register for classes. If you encounter an error not discussed here, of if you need further clarification, contact the Registrar (901.678.2810 / registrar@memphis.edu ). Academic Standing Prohibits Registration Logout and contact the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services . Alternate PIN Screen No entry is valid: you need to be advised and cleared to register. Contact your advisor/advising unit. Authorization Failure - Invalid Alternate PIN. No entry for Alternate PIN is valid. Contact your advisor/advising unit to be cleared to register. CLASS RESTRICTION You are trying to enroll in a course that is not appropriate for your student classification--Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, Senior. (For example, if you have Sophomore standing or higher, you cannot enroll in ACAD 1100.) You will not be able to register for this course unless you receive a permit . CLOSED SECTION All of the seats allotted for the section have been filled; you will not be able to register for this section unless you receive a permit . CO-REQUISITE ERROR You are attempting to add a course that requires one or more co-requisites, that is, another course or courses that must be taken along with the course you have entered. You need to add ALL required courses in one submission. DUPL CRSE WITH SEC... You have already added this course. If you wish to change sections, perform a drop-add in one submission. LEVEL RESTRICTION You are trying to take a course/section that is not appropriate for your level--Undergraduate, Graduate, or Law. LINK ERROR You have added only the lecture or lab section of a course that requires that both the lab and the lecture be taken together in the term. Add both sections in one submission. MAJOR RESTRICTION You have tried to enroll in a course that is restricted to a particular major or majors; you cannot register for this course without a permit . MAXIMUM HOURS EXCEEDED You cannot exceed the maximum course load for your level without receiving special permission. Refer to the Undergraduate Catalog and Graduate Catalog for more information. PERMIT REQUIRED You may register for this section only if you have a permit . PREQ and TEST SCORE-ERROR The registration system has no record of your having taken this course's required prerequisite or having tested out of the prerequisite. Example, you want ENGL 1020 but you have neither passed ENGL 1010 (or its equivalent), nor tested out of ENGL 1010. REPEAT COUNT EXCEEDS... Some courses may be repeated for credit, but only for a limited number of times. You are attempting to add a course that you have already taken and passed for the limit. To take it again, you will have to be granted a permit . TIME CONFLICT WITH ... You are trying to register for two or more courses whose meeting times overlap. Adjust your schedule, or request a permit for a time conflict. TOO MANY REGISTRATION ATTEMPTS The registration system allows you 1000 attempts at adding or dropping classes per term. Once you exceed this maximum, you are "locked out" of that term's online registration. If you are locked out, go to the Registrar's Office, 003 Wilder Tower for assistance. You are only permitted to register for [11.999 or 8.999] hours due to outstanding immunization requirements. Please submit proof of MMR if full-time registration is desired. The University does not have a record of your Measles-Mumps-Rubella (MMR) immunization. Unless this is on file with Student Health Services, you will be restricted to a part-time course load. For more information, see Immunization: MMR . You have attempted to access a disabled page. You entered something in the SEARCH field in the top left-hand corner of the screen. This search field has been disabled on all Self Service screens at UofM because it allowed students direct access to registration features they were not authorized to use. You have no Registration Time Ticket. Please contact the registration administrator. You cannot register yet for one of these reasons: (1) You have not been fully accepted for admission. Call Undergraduate Admissions at 901.678.2111 or Graduate Admissions at 901.678.2911 to inquire about your admission status. (2) You need to be readmitted because you did not attend during the last Fall or Spring term. (3) It's too early for someone in your classification to register. Refer to the term's Dates &amp; Deadlines calendar for your first day to register. You require re-admission prior to registration. When you skip a Fall or Spring term, you must apply for readmission . Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .