#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/civil_eng.pdf
Civil Engineering T&P Guideline TENURE AND PROMOTION GUIDELINES DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS Approved: 8/28/2006 1. Overview a. All candidates for tenure and/or promotion must meet department, college, and university criteria in effect at the time of the application. Submitted dossiers must comply with college and university requirements. b. Civil Engineering faculty will be expected to make a contribution in all three traditional academic areas of teaching, research, and service. The level of effort in each area, and the weighting of each area in tenure and promotion decisions, will not necessarily be equal, but will be determined in consultation with the Department Chair during the annual planning process. c. When a new faculty member is hired by the Department of Civil Engineering, the Department Chair will appoint a tenured member to mentor him or her regarding the tenure and promotion process. d. Tenure and promotion, reappointment review, and mid-term review schedules should follow the timetables set by the college and posted on the College of Engineering web site. 2. Annual Evaluation and Planning a. At the appropriate time during the Spring semester, all faculty prepare an annotated report of their activities during the current academic year and a plan for the next year. These are submitted to the Department Chair. b. The Department Chair will review the reports and plans, prepare a written evaluation, and meet individually with tenure-track faculty to discuss their progress, evaluation, and future plans. 3. Mid-Probationary Period Review a. In the Spring semester of their third year (or earlier for faculty with reduced probationary time), tenure-track faculty will prepare a dossier documenting their progress toward tenure. This document will be identical to a tenure application, but without letters from external evaluators. This document is to be submitted to the Tenure and Promotion Committee (T&PC). b. The T&PC will evaluate the dossier and prepare a written report. The report should specify the department's criteria, discuss the strengths and weaknesses of the faculty member's accomplishments relative to those criteria, and provide meaningful feedback and direction to assist the faculty member in planning and organizing subsequent work activities. The candidate™s file and the written evaluation will be presented to the Department Chair. c. The Department Chair will review the file and the committee™s report and prepare an independent evaluation that similarly addresses the strengths and weaknesses of the faculty member's accomplishments. d. The Department Chair, the T&PC Chair, and the assigned mentor will meet with the candidate to discuss the evaluations. The faculty member may write a brief response to the evaluations to address any inaccuracies. Civil Engineering T&P Guideline e. The candidate's dossier, the recommendations made by the T&PC and the Department Chair, and the candidate's response (if any) will be forwarded to the Dean of the Herff College of Engineering for review and recommendation by the College T&PC. 4. Criteria for Tenure and Promotion to Associate Professor a. Candidates must have an earned doctorate in Civil Engineering or a related discipline plus at least five (5) years of appropriate academic experience in that discipline unless credit for prior service is specified in the offer letter and/or appointment papers. b. Candidates must have a solid command of their subject matter and a commitment to continued growth in their subject field as demonstrated by such things as licensure as a professional engineer; participation on technical committees; and attendance at short courses, workshops, and seminars. c. Candidates must have established a reputation as an effective teacher at the undergraduate and graduate levels as demonstrated by such things as student evaluations (a summary of SIRS scores is required for every course section taught); evaluations by the Department Chair, alum ni, and/or peers; nomination by others for outstanding teaching awards; participation in teaching effectiveness workshops; and development and dissemination of innovative educational methods or materials. d. Candidates must have a record of scholarly productivity, indicative of regional or national recognition in Civil Engineering, as demonstrat ed by such things as the acquisition of research grants; publications in refereed journals; published books, chapters, and monographs; preparation of significant grant proposals; presentations at professional meetings; and patents. e. Candidates must have a record of service to the university, the community, and/or the profession. Service to the university is demonstrated by such things as participation on departmental, college, and university governance bodies and committees; student recruitment efforts; and guest lecturing in other departments. Service to the community is demonstrated by such things as participation as an unpaid consultant or advisor to government bodies, unpaid service in a professional capacity on community-based committees, or speaking to local service clubs. Service to the profession is evidenced by such things as participation as an officer or committee chairman of a professional organization such as the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), service as the editor or as an editorial board member of a professional journal, or an advisor to a student professional group, such as the student chapter of ASCE or Tau Beta Pi. f. Candidates must have demonstrated a willingness to work with colleagues in supporting the goals and missions of the department, college, and university, as stated in the Faculty Handbook. 5. Criteria for Promotion to Professor a. Candidates must have an earned doctorate in Civil Engineering or a related discipline from an accredited college or university and at least ten (10) years of appropriate academic experience in that discipline. b. Candidates must have demonstrated continuing growth in their subject field as evidenced by such things as serving in leadership positions on technical committees and developing short courses, workshops, and seminars. Civil Engineering T&P Guideline c. Candidates must have maintained a high level of effectiveness in teaching. A summary of SIRS scores is required for every section taught during the five years prior to the year of application. d. Candidates must have demonstrated a continuing high level of research and scholarly productivity, indicative of national or international recognition in Civil Engineering, and a sustained publication record in refereed journals. e. Candidates must have a record of significant and continuing service to the university, the community, and/or the profession. 6. Application Process a. All candidates for tenure and/or promotion will make their intentions known to the Chairman of the T&PC. At that time each candidate will receive a checklist of the documentation and timeline required by the T&PC. b. One Committee member acceptable to t he candidate will be selected either by the candidate or T&PC Chair in conjunction with the Committee. That Committee member will aid the candidate in preparing the necessary documentation for use by the Committee. c. Materials to be submitted to external ex aminers should be provided to the T&PC Chair. The T&PC Chair will distribute the materials to the examiners. The T&PC Chair will ensure that at least two letters are obtained in time to be included in the candidate's file. d. Candidates will present their complete tenure application files to the T&PC Chair. The committee will examine the file on each candidate and may acquire additional data if necessary. One or more members of the Committee may also conduct unannounced class visitations. The file will be considered closed immediately prior to convening the meeting of the T&PC at which the vote will be taken. No materials may be added or removed after this time. 7. Committee Composition and Procedures a. The composition of the Department T&PC w ill conform to the requirements specified in the current edition of the Faculty Handbook. b. In cases of promotion, only those faculty who hold a rank equal to or above that to which the candidate aspires are eligible to vote. c. In the event that the Department has fewer than three faculty eligible for a T&PC, the Department Chair will recommend to the Dean appropriate faculty from related disciplines to constitute a committee of at least three members. d. Every Spring Semester, a T&PC Chair will be elected by the T&PC membership for the upcoming academic year. e. Only Committee members eligible to vote on a particular candidate may be present during discussions pertaining to that candidate. f. A quorum for the T&PC shall consist of two-thirds of the faculty members eligible to vote. g. The candidate must be discussed at one or more meetings of the T&PC prior to the meeting at which the vote is taken. Committee members who have not participated in at least one of those previous meetings are ineligible to vote. Civil Engineering T&P Guideline h. The candidate will be informed of the time and date of the meeting at which the vote will be conducted. The vote will be conducted by secret ballot, and the results tallied and recorded by the T&PC Chair. Absentee or proxy votes are not allowed. i. After the vote, a final report shall be prepared. That report must be approved by a majority of the T&P committee. The T&PC Chair will forward the report to the Department Chair or directly to the Dean if the candidate is the Department Chair. j. The Department Chair will forward all materials to the Dean of the Herff College of Engineering. 8. Modification of Tenure and Promotion Guidelines a. At least once each year, the Department C hair will convene a general faculty meeting to discuss the state of the department and its strategic plan. At that time, modifications to the Department™s tenure and promotion polic ies and amendments to this document will be discussed, if necessary. b. Proposed amendments to this document may be submitted by any faculty member in the Department. All amendments must be approved by a simple majority of the faculty in the Department.