#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/electrical_comp_eng.pdf
1Tenure and Promotion Guidelines Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering The University of Memphis (Approved 11/10/04) I. Overview The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering seeks to hire, tenure, and promote faculty who establish and sustain an independent research program and contribute to the teaching and serv ice mission of the department. All candidates for tenure and/or promotion must meet department, college, and university criteria in effect at the time of application. Submitted dossiers must comply with college and university requi rements as specified in the current Faculty Handbook. II. Annual Reviews/Evaluations At the appropriate time during the spring semester, all faculty members prepare an annotated report of their activities during the current academic year, and a plan for the next year. Reports and plans are submitted to the Department Chair. The Department Chair will prepare a written evaluation and meet individually with faculty to discuss their progress, evaluation, and future plans. III. Mid-Probationary Period Reviews The mid-probationary period review is a critical evaluation point in the tenure-track process. It is intended to provide constructive feedback regarding a faculty memberôs progress that will help them to determine wh ere they stand in terms of their later application for tenure and promotion. In the spring of a tenure-track faculty memberôs third year, in addition to the normal annual review, tenureåtrack faculty will prepare a dossier in the same format as a tenure application, documenting their progress, to be submitted by March 15. These documents will be submitted to the D epartment Tenure and Promotion (T&P) Committee who will evaluate and prepare a written report. External peer evaluations will not be obtained for the mid-probationary review. The dossier and the written evaluation will be presented to the Department Chair by April 1. The Department Chair will review the dossier and committee evaluation, discuss both with the candidate, and prepare an independent evaluation. Both evaluations will be forwarded to the Dean of the College Engineering for review and recommendation by the College T&P Committee. An unsatisfactory mid-probationary evaluatio n may result in the non-renewal of a tenure-track contract. 2IV. Criteria for Tenure and Pr omotion to Associate Professor The minimum criteria for promotion to associate professor rank are essentially the same as the criteria for tenure. In addition, the candidate for promotion must have academic service at The University of Memphis in the two academic years prior to applying for promotion, unless credit for prior service is specified in the offer letter and/or appointment papers. A faculty member applying for tenure shall be evaluated according to criteria in the following three general areas: 1. Research and scholarly activity 2. Teaching effectiveness 3. Service In addition the candidate must have a doctorate in Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering or a closely related field. 1) Research and Scholarly Activity Evidence of research and scholarly activity must consist of at least the following: a. Publications in refereed journals and the presentation on a regular basis of papers at professional confer ences are a necessary part of every candidateôs application. b. The establishment of an academic area in which national recognition is likely. The academic area may be narrow or broad. c. The submission of applications on a regul ar basis for external funding to support research and other scholarly activities. Sponsored research through funded proposals will be valued in the tenure and promotion decision. The external support must have been obtained during service as a faculty member at The University of Memphis. 2) Teaching Effectiveness Demonstrated effectiveness in teaching is required. Evidence may include development and implementation of significant instructional methods or materials. It is expected that student evaluations, using a university approv ed evaluation instrument, will be obtained for every section taught. At least one recent peer evaluation of teaching effectiveness is also required. 3) Service Service activities for the profession, university and the public are important contributions that can be made by a faculty member. Each type of service rendered will be reviewed separately relative to its contribution to tenure. Evidence of service through participation in projects, committees, student advising, and/or functions of the department, university, 3or professional organizations, other than teaching, research, directing graduate students, and other scholarly activities. Public service activities are so varied that no one activity can be stated as a minimum. However, such activities can be counted in the tenure process. V. Criteria for Promotion to Professor Promotion to professor at the University of Memphis shou ld be based to some extent upon the candidate's performance at The University of Memphis. The candidate must have academic service at the University in at least the two academic years prior to applying for promotion, unless credit for prior service is specified in the offer letter and/or appointment papers. 1) Research and Scholarly Activity Demonstration of a continuing high level of research and scholarly productivity that denote national recognition is paramount. A cons istent and significant recent publication record in refereed journals is required. Additional considerations may include: designation as the principal investigator of an externally funded research program; recipient of a special grant for distinguished sc holars; significant record of invitations to speak at national meetings or workshops; authorship of a te xtbook or monograph. Externally supported research through funded grants or contracts will be highly valued in the promotion decision. 2) Teaching Effectiveness Demonstrated continuing high level of effect iveness in teaching is required. It is expected that student evaluations will be conduc ted for every section taught during the five years prior to the year of application. Minimum teaching effectiveness must be demonstrated by using a university approved student evaluation of instruction instrument. At least one recent peer evaluation of teaching effectiveness is also required. 3) Service Evidence of continued contributions to proj ects, committees, student advising, and/or functions of the department and university that establishes a campus wide reputation for professional accomplishments that have directly benefited the students and faculty of the department and university, and/or a significant record of service to nationally recognized professional organizations. VI. Application Process It is the faculty member's responsibility to notify the Department Chair of his/her intent to apply for Tenure and/or Promotion (see the follo wing flowchart for schedule). It is also the faculty memberôs responsibility to document activities in teaching, research and 4service (see the checklist below for the preparation of the dossier using the current university format). The faculty member should provide the Department Chair with names and contact addresses of six to eight external review ers with a statement of their relationship with each of them. At least six external reviewers will be contacted by the T&P Committee from names submitted by t he Department Chair, committee members, and the candidate. A minimum of four reviews must be received by the T&P Committee to be included into the candidateôs dossier . The inclusion/exclusion of external assessments will adhere to the current Facult y Handbook criteria. The candidate may also provide a suggested list of potential reviewers to be excluded from consideration. Requirements for documenting teaching and research activities are as follows: 1) Teaching Effectiveness Student evaluations are essential for documenting teaching effectiveness. University approved student evaluation forms are to be used. Candidates must follow the recommended procedures in conducting these evaluations. University supplied summaries of all evaluations are more effective than selecting a few examples. Recent evaluations will receive more emphasis than earlier ones, although the statistical nature of such samples will be considered. Presenting summaries in a tabular format according to the format specified in the current Faculty Handbook is requir ed. Other items that may be included in the supplementary documentation include the following: 1. Written evaluations by graduat es that have left the university 2. Papers presented and published by such organizations as the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE), t he IEEE Education Society, etc. 3. Grade distributions in courses taught 4. Other items the candidate believe s will document teaching effectiveness 2) Documenting Research Productivity Candidates must provide a detailed summary of their funding for research and a list of their refereed publications. Copies of proposals, final reports, etc., are generally not helpful. Copies of refereed publications should be included in the applicant's supplementary documentation. Unsuccessful proposals also help document research productivity so these must also be summarized. Proposals and papers in the process of being reviewed at the time of application should also be listed in the summary with an appropriate note as to their status. A paper is not "accepted" until it is accepted for publication with only editorial changes required. If it is to be resubmitted for review, it is not "accepted" for publication. Letters from the editor are required in the supplementary documentation to show that a particular paper that has not appeared in print is "accepted." VII. Composition and Functioni ng of Department Committee The departmental T&P Committee composition will conform to the requirements specified in the Faculty Handbook. The Chair of the Department will appoint the Chair 5of the T&P Committees no later than two weeks prior to the end of the spring semester. Only Committee members eligible to vote may attend meetings. The following tenured faculty members are not eligible to attend meetings: Department Chair and the candidateôs spouse. A quorum for the T&P Commi ttee shall consist of two-thirds of the eligible faculty members. In the event that the Department has fewer than two faculty members eligible for a T&P Committee, the Department Chair will recommend to the Dean appropriate faculty members from related disciplines to constitute a committee of at least three faculty members. The candidate will be informed of the time an d date of the T&P meeting at which the vote will be conducted. After a final round of discussion, the vote will be conducted by secret ballot, tallied and recorded by the T&P Committee Chair. Absentee or proxy votes are not allowed. A final report shall be approved in a meeting of the T&P Committee. The T&P Committee Chair will forward the report to the Department Chair, or to the Dean if the candidate is the Department Chair. The Department Chair will inform the candidate of the recommendation and vote of the T&P Committee, and of his or her recommendation. All materials will be forwarded to the Dean of the College Engineering for review by the College T&P Committee. VIII. Modification of T&P Guidelines The tenured and tenure-track faculty (including the Chair) of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering may review the criteria for tenure and promotion each fall. Changes that are approved by the tenured and tenure-track faculty of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engin eering will be submitted to the Dean of the College of Engineering no later than November 15. It is expected that all approvals will be obtained prior to January so that anyone joining the faculty in January will use the new criteria. However, criteria remain in effect until replaced by duly approved newer criteria. IX. Checklist for Dossier The candidate must provide to the Department the required materials (marked with an asterisk) to be assembled into his/her dossier in a spiral notebook that is organized in the manner described below. The department is responsible for assembling the dossier using, in part, the materials provided by the candidate. The candidate is solely responsible for assembling the supporting materials. Supporting materials su ch as journal papers, student letters, award certificates, etc., are to be included in separate 3-ring notebook(s) which will be retained at the departmental level, but made available in the department for review as requested by the Department T&P Committee, Chair, College T&P Committee, Dean, Provost, and/or Appeals Committee. 6 Dossier Format (* denotes material provided by the candidate) (APPLICANT'S FULL NAME) Tab I. SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS Recommendation Signature Page Appointment History Tab II. COLLEGE/SCHOOL RECOMMENDATION Statement from the Dean Statement from the College/School Committee Tab III. DEPARTMENT/AREA RECOMMENDATION (if applicable) Statement from the from Department Chair/Area Head Statement from the from Department/Area Committee Tab IV. EXTERNAL EVALUATIONS Copy of Solicitation Letter to External Evaluators Summary of Credentials of External Evaluators External Peer Evaluations (See section entitled "External Peer Reviews") Tab V. INTERNAL EVALUATIONS Initial Appointment Letter Annual Evaluations Third-Year Evaluation by Department and any candidate response Third-Year Evaluation by College (if applicable) Tab VI. INSTRUCTION Summary of Teaching Responsibilities/Philo sophy (normally two to three pages)* Summary of Student Evaluations* Peer Evaluation(s) of Teaching Honors and Awards* Tab VII. RESEARCH/SCHOLARSHIP/CREATIVE ACTIVITY Brief Summary of Accomplishments and Plans (normally two to three pages)* Internal Grants and Contracts* External Grants and Contracts* Peer Evaluation(s) of Research/Scholarship/Creative Activity Honors and Awards* Tab VIII. SERVICE/OUTREACH/ADVI SING/MENTORING/ADMINISTRATION Brief Summary of Responsibilities and Accomplishments* Internal Grants and Contracts* External Grants and Contracts* Peer Evaluation(s) of Service/Advising/Mentoring/Administration Honors and Awards* Tab IX. UNIVERSITY Curriculum Vitae* Tab X. OTHER PERTINENT INFORMATION 7X. Flowchart Flowchart of EECE Tenure and Promotion Procedures Step Responsibility Action Due Date 1 Candidate Notify Chair of Intent to apply for Tenure and/or Promotion. Last day of Spring Semester 2 Candidate; Department T&P Committee Independently develop a list of potential external reviewers. Last day of Spring Semester 3 Department Chair In consultation with T&P Committee, finalize list of reviewers and solicit their agreement to review the candidateôs materials. May 30 4 Candidate Develop packet of research materials and vitae to submit to external reviewers. May 30 5 Department Chair or T&P Committee Chair Send letter, candidateôs materials, and Department T&P Guidelines (criteria) to reviewers (follow College Calendar for due date of the reviewersô recommendations). June 5 6 Candidate Complete Dossier and supporting materials (following University, College, and Department guidelines and calendar); submit to Department Chair. September 7 Department Chair Collect all materials (Candidateôs Dossier, External Review Letters and Vitae); Submit to Department T&P Committee. September 8 Department T&P Committee Chair Schedule and lead Department T&P Committee review meetings; draft committee recommendation for member review; finalize; submit Committee Recommendation with all materials to Chair. September/ October 9 Department Chair Independently review candidateôs dossier and reviews and provide recommendation to Deanôs Office, who will forward to College Committee. October