#http://www.memphis.edu/amum/about/visitmuseum.php
Visit Museum - Art Museum of the University of Memphis - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Art Museum of the University of Memphis About Exhibitions Collections Education &amp; Research About Staff Mission Advisory Board IEAA Museum Studies Home Art Museum of the University of Memphis About Visit Museum Special Alert: AMUM is now closed as of today (September 19th at 5pm) to undergo important HVAC work that will ultimately enhance the protection of our artifacts and art objects, over which our Museum is guardian. We will reopen Spring 2016 at a precise date to be released. Hours &amp; Admission AMUM is open Monday through Saturday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. except on University holidays and between temporary exhibitions. For details concerning closing dates, contact AMUM at (901) 678-2224. Admission is free. Tours AMUM offers guided group tours of the Egyptian and African Collections free of charge. Tours may be scheduled Monday through Friday between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. Tours last approximately 20 minutes per Collection. To schedule a tour, call AMUM at (901) 678-2224. Because of space limitations, AMUM can accommodate no more than 60 visitors per tour. Tours are appropriate for grades 4 and up. Tours should be booked two weeks prior to the requested tour date. If a tour must be canceled, AMUM should be notified as soon as possible To receive an Educator's Guide to the Egyptian Collection, e-mail the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology. Buses must park in the Connolly Parking lot accessible off Poplar Avenue near Deloach street. Bus drivers are encouraged to drop off students and chaperones before parking. Best place to drop off visitors is Central Avenue Parking lot. Bus drivers should note that the lot in which they must park is directly behind the Central lot, but only accessible off of Poplar. Museum Safety and Preservation Rules: Objects and cases should never be touched. No food, beverages or smoking allowed. Briefcases, shopping bags, umbrellas, backpacks, and other bulky items should be checked at the front desk. Photography is prohibited. Notes should be taken with pencils only. Disability Parking Access / Parking Services / Visitor Parking Please note the following parking advise: Parking is free Fridays after 4:00pm and on weekends in the Central Avenue parking lot.The parking garage is two dollars per hour and incurs a fee up to 12 dollars per day. Please note that the live map feed above marks a driving route. However, many pedestrian walkways also lead to the Museum. Use the map by locating your current position in regard to considering the shortest and easiest direct walk once you have parked. Parking is free on Fridays after 4pm and all day Saturday. During the week you have the option of paying two dollars per hour in the parking garage off Innovation Drive directly behind the Museum or paying the meters in the Central Avenue Parking Lot. If you do not mind the exercise of a slightly more lengthy walk, then you have the added free option of parking on Deloach, which is the road that turns into Innovation Avenue the closer you get to the University. Disability Parking info here. The Art Museum of the University of Memphis is located inside the (CFA) Communications Fine Arts Building. (Physical Address is located on the right navigation panel on this webpage and on the oposite lefthand navigation panel additional directional help links may be found.) VISITOR PARKING Invited Visitor parking permits are available for University guests invited by a department and may be arranged through Parking &amp; Transportation Services for the inviting department's distribution. Parking &amp; Transportation Services is open from 7:00am – 6:00pm Monday through Thursday, and 7:00am – 4:30pm Friday. Visitor parking permits are available at Parking &amp; Transportation Services. A fee is charged for visitor parking permits. Visitors may also park in the Innovation Garage and Zach Curlin Garage without a permit. An hourly fee is charged for parking in the garages. About Staff Mission Advisory Board IEAA Museum Studies Visit AMUM Contact Us Support AMUM Join Mailing List Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/7/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .