#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/shs_updated.pdf
SHS T&P Guidelines 1 Tenure and Prom otion Policy and Procedures Revised 10/27/15 SHS T&P Guidelines 2 Introduction Tenure is the granting to a faculty member the expectancy of permanency and security in his/her academic appointment. The granting of tenure is contingent upon demon strated competence and fitness for membership in a collegiate community and at an acceptable level as long as the position is retained (i.e., needed based on the academic mission and financial security of the school ) . Tenure is not to be viewed as a reward for long service, for loyalty to an institution, or simply as a means by which the services of certain professors may be obtained and/or extended. Rather, the granting of tenure is a certification of competence and of trust in present and continued profes sionalism. It is awarded upon the recommendations of colleagues and administrators, and may be revoked only when stated causes for dismissal have been substantiated through due process, for financial exigency, or for curricular reasons. The acceptance o f tenure implies a commitment on the part of the faculty member to academic pursuits and to the scholarly and professional performance of assigned duties. Academic rank is an expression by faculty and administration that a peer who is engaged in teaching, research and service merits the academic reward of promotion in rank. Different academic ranks (i.e ., assistant, a ssociate, and full p rofessor) imply different levels of expectation in responsibility and achievement. The general policies on tenure and pr omotion (T&P) of The University of Memph is furnish the base upon which the School of Health Studies (SHS ) determines its c riteria for T&P . A copy of the university guidelines are available on the university website (provost office site). Questions relating to the policies and the criteria, or to any interpretation there of, should be submitted to the school director . Committee on Tenure and Promotion The school c ommittee on T&P will func tion and proceed as follows: 1. The committee will be comprised of all fu ll - time tenured associate and full professors. All committee members are eligible to vote for candidates seeking tenure and/or promotion to the rank of associate professor ; all committee members are eligible to vote for candidates seeking tenure only . For consideration of promotion to full professor, a subcommittee consisting of all tenured full professors will make the recommendations. 2. Faculty members seeking tenure or promotion are ineligibl e to serve on the committee. 3. The first meeting of the committee will be called early in the fall semester (first part of September) by the committee chair, who will usually be nominated/elected during the prior fall semester by the school faculty. This initial meeting will serve as an informational meeting to provide a ll voting faculty with an overview of their responsibilities in reviewing candidate materials and providing an unbiased recommendation. The school director may be present at this meeting. a. Although not required, it is ideal for the committee chair to hold the rank of full p rofessor, so that he/she can participate in all voting (i.e., candidates applying for the rank of either associate professor or full professor). 4. The committee chair will issue the call for all subsequent meetings . Considerin g that the rev iew of the candidate's materials is done online, with few exceptions, there should be the need for only one or two meetings after the initial informational meeting . SHS T&P Guidelines 3 5. Voting at the school level must be by secret ballot. Committee members must be present to vote. The committee chair will tally votes and retain the ballots. The committee chair will transfer vote counts to a master form (recommendation form) which will be included school director . Responsibilitie s of the SHS Tenure and Promotion Committee Committee res ponsibilities are four - fold: 1. Evaluate candidates eligible for tenure and/or promotion and make recommendat ions to the SHS Director (via the T&P committee chair). 2. Evaluate and advise new, untenured fa culty at the concl usion of the first three years (mid - tenure review). 3. Advise the SHS Director , as needed , regarding tenure and /or promotion concerns and issues that may arise during candidate reviews . 4. Review and propose recommended changes as needed to the T&P document. The committee uses a variety of information when considering a faculty member for tenure and/or promotion. Some judgments can be based upon objective eviden ce such as the quantity of external grant applications and contracts submitted, the total dollar amount of external support, the number of peer - reviewed articles, book chapters, books, invited lectures, conference presentations, abstracts, consultancies, and the like. However, in the context of sufficient quantity, the quality of accompli shments should be equally important. The assessment of scholarship quality may be subjective in certain cases and should be determined only after careful review. Items such as journal impact factors, citation index (if such data are a vailable) , and manuscr ipt acceptance rates may provide some guidance when assessing over quality. With regards to teaching effectiveness, student evaluations (both numeric and written: SETES as described below within this document) are the main piece of data used in evaluatio n. Formal peer - reviews of faculty teaching effectiveness, as well as anecdotal comments provided by peers and students may be considered as well. Variables such as the type and nature of the course (e.g., graduate vs. undergraduate; lecture vs. laboratory; assignments and grading utilized), the number of new course preparations, and class size may also be considered in the evaluation. With regards to service, a wide variety of activities may be considered in evaluating faculty members. These include servi ce responsibilities within the school and university, as well as within the profession. Some examples include committee work, manuscript reviews, journal editorial board positions, laboratory , center or facility directorship, and presentations provided to and articles written for of expertise. Qualitative judgments should be provided by external professionals , who agree to assess the candidate's r esearch and scholarly activity. These written assessm ents are solicited by the school director and reviewed by the T&P committee (see External Peer Review Policy). When assessing the candidate, i all of the following: SHS T&P Guidelines 4 1. The candi date's entire online " portfolio " or "dossier." 2. How well the candidate has performed on annual evaluations. 3. Whether or not the candidate is actively developing (associate professor) or has successfully developed (full professor) a focused line of research, to be viewed as having potential for national recognition (associate professor) or currently having national recognition (f ull professor) in his/her area of expertise. 4. Whether or not the candidate has made necessary improvements (if applicable) as suggested by the school direct or in written format (i.e., annual evaluations, mid - tenure review) , with regards to their research, teaching, and/or service responsibilities. 5. Whether or not the candidate's performance aligns with school goals, needs and future directions . 6. The degree of collegiality of the candidate. Importance of Candidate Review The review of candidate materials for tenure and/or promotion consideration should be viewed as one of the most important service responsibilities of a tenured faculty member. As such, the res ponsibility should be taken very seriously, with great effort placed on the review of candidate materials. Faculty members are encouraged to plan for the appropriate time to be spent reviewing candidate materials (in some cases, many hours) so that an info rmed and appropriate decision can be made with regards to the candidate application. Eligibility for Tenure and Promotion Tenure A faculty member with the rank of assistant professor or higher who has completed a five - year probationary period (unless ot herwise prescribed in writing and approved by the school director and provost) must make application for tenure. Absent an exception approved by the school director, provost, and the president, application for tenure must be reviewed in the fall semester o f the sixth year. ( Note: The candidate will actually begin the process during the spring semester of their fifth year, as indicated below in T&P Timeline and Procedures ). Exceptions that may affect the length of the probationary period are addressed in t he Faculty Handbook in the sections entitled "Credit for Prior Service," "Credit for Administrative Position or Transfer," "Extension of the Probationary Period," "Stopping the Clock," and "Le aves of Absence." To receive tenure, a candidate must meet eligi bility requirements for promotion to associate professor . This applies to candidates who are seeking both tenure and promotion simultaneously (which is most typical), or candidates who are seeking tenure alone (for those who entered at the rank of associat e or full professor without tenure). Tenure applications receive one of two responses: tenure is granted; or tenure is denied. Re - application for tenure is not possible and the seventh year, or other final year following application for tenure, will be ter minal if tenure is denied. As p er T he University of Memphis Faculty Handbook, faculty members who are not recommended for tenure and promotion will be given notice of non - renewal of the appointment. Upon receipt of notice of such non - renewal, the faculty member will be eligible for a one - year non - renewable appointment at the University. Failure to submit an application for tenure in the academic year that precedes the end of the probationary period will result in non - renewal of the SHS T&P Guidelines 5 candidate's contract fo r the following year. Unlike unsuccessful applications for tenure, the candidate will not be accorded an automatic one - year contract if he/she fails to apply for tenure at the specified time. Faculty holding temporary appointments are not eligible for te nure. Also, faculty may not be tenured in an administrative position. A faculty member will retain tenure in his/her former faculty position when appointed to an administrative position, and those otherwise eligible for tenure and who also hold an administ rative position may earn tenure in the faculty position only. Tenure Only In some circumstances, faculty may be hired at the rank of associate professor or full professor , rather than at the rank of assistant professor . In such cases, they will not be im mediately granted tenure and will need to apply for t enure after completing a certain number of years of service ( to be determined at the time of hire) . To receive tenure, the candidate must meet the same eligibility requirements as for promotion to associ ate professor . This is true for those who are hired at the rank of associate professor o r full professor . Promotion Only Faculty members may apply for promotion to full professor whenever they believe they meet the established criteria. As per the Faculty Handbook , when applying for promotion to full professor a faculty member must have at least 10 years of relevant work experience outside of the time during which they completed their graduate school training. Faculty members should be well - recognized in t heir specific area of expertise at the time of application viewed as having national recognition and having contributed substantial research contributions to the specific field of study . Faculty members are advised, but not required, to confer with the sch ool director before submitting applications for promotion. T&P Timeline and Procedures The following procedures should be followed, with few exceptions: 1. The school director will initiate the promotion to associate p rofessor with tenure for eli gible facu lty in the school . A detailed letter will be sent to candidates, describing the process and the timeline for submitting needed materials. The same will be done for candidates interested in applying for promotion to full professor. However, such candidates will need to notify the school director prior to this time of their interest in applying for promotion. The school director will supply candidates with copies of the school and university guidelines for T&P. These will typically be provided as electronic versions or website links for which the documents can be found. The school director will request the n ames, contact information, and other pertinent information related to potential external reviewers (see External Peer Review Policy below) . The school di rector will request tha t candidates upload all needed materials for review to the online folder . ( Note: The link to the online folder will be pr ovided). i. When: Although the timeline may vary slightly from year to year, the following provides a reasonable e xpectation: 1. External Reviewer name s and information: 1 st week of May SHS T&P Guidelines 6 2. Upload of The University of Memphis style curriculum vitae ( CV ) , all three narratives, a nd three representative peer - reviewed manuscripts all of which will be available to the external re viewers: May 31 st 3. Upload of ALL materials to be reviewed by the school committee : August 31 st a. Note: The online folder will be shut off to candidates after the August 31 st deadline 2. C andidates will prepare and upload all needed materials for review to the on line folder by the stated deadlines. 3. The school director will submit t he names of faculty members to be considered for tenure and/or promotion to the School T&P Committee chair. i. When: Early s ummer 4. The school director will contact potential external revie wers to solicit recommendations. i. When: Early summer 5. The school director will receive the external reviewer letters and these will be uploaded , in addition to all other required materials, to the candid ate's folder. i. When: Early September 6. The school commi ttee will review candidate materials independently over a period of 7 - 10 business days. They will then meet collectively to discuss each candidate and to vote on tenure and/or promotion. i. When: Mid September 7. The school T&P committee chair will draft a lett er outlining the strengths and weaknesses of the candidate and submit to the committee for review. Once finalized, the committee chair will submit a signed electronic copy of the letter to the school director . In addition to this letter, the committee chai r will submit an electronic version of the completed T&P Recommendation Form. i. When: End of September 8. The school director will review the committee recommendations, in addition to all candidate materials, and write a recommendation letter for the candidate. The letter will be uploaded to the candidate folder, along with any supplemental required materials. i. When: September 30 th 9. The school director will make a recommendation to the provost. i. When: October 10. The provost will review the candidate materials and m ake a recommendation to the president . The president will make a recommendation to t he Tennessee Board of Regents. The candidate will be notified of the outcome. i. When: During the subsequent spring semester 11. The candidate assumes the new rank (if tenure an d/or promotion are approved). i. When: Start of the subsequent fall semester 12. The school director will meet with candidates as requested, to address any questions or concerns they may have regarding the process of tenure and /or promotion. i. When: As needed thro ughout the process SHS T&P Guidelines 7 Voting Procedures of the Committee T he school T&P committee will observe vot ing procedures listed below: 1. Spouses of candidates may not participate in committ ee discussions at any level. 2. Voting o n the candidates will commence when the committee chair believes that the discussion of the candidate has been adequate and the time is right to begin voting. 3. Each member must be present to vote and will respond by secret ballot by cast ing 4. Voting for tenure of an assistant professor and promotion to the associate level rank is do ne concurrently (a single vote), whereas when voting for tenure as an associate or full professor and /or promotion to the rank of full professor, e ach is performed separately. 5. Candidates receiving a majority of affirmative votes are recommended. NOTE: At least two - thirds of the committee members must be present for each meeting at which time candidates are considered and/or voted on. Deliberations of the committee will be held in strict confidence. D iscussio ns will be objective and will be confined to the consideration of established criteria for tenure and/or promotion. As indicated above and in accordance with university policies, the committee chair will make a written report of all decisions to th e school director , including reasons for the recommendation. Processing and Reviewing Candidate Materials The online collection of candidate materials ( d ossier ) provide s evidence of qualification for tenure and/ or promotion and how the candidate's effor t may contribute to the school and goals. Each candidate for tenure and/or promotion must present a dossier of materials according to current school and university policy as indicated within T he University of Memphis Faculty Handbook . That said, i t should be noted that the school require s that all candidate materials to be considered for T&P must be uploaded electronically to the candidate folder. No hard copy materials will be used in the review process, despite what may be stated in The Universi ty of Memphis Faculty Handbook . The candidate should upload ALL materials to be reviewed by the school committee (as well as by the school director and provost) specific to the areas of 1) research (scholarship), 2) teaching, and 2) service. All appropri ate supporting materials relative to research , teaching, and service should be included. Examples of supporting materials include copies of ALL publications and summary student evaluations of courses (SETES) . The inclusion of non - essential documents is dis couraged. Candidates should prepare online dossiers for review in accordance with the specific gu idelines provided by the school . An online folder for each candidate will be set up and the current required numbering system by which each document should b e uploaded to the online folder will be provided . Candidates must save documents by the required numbering system so that reviewers will successfully be able to locate needed items for review. Candidates who are uncertain what to include in their dossiers or how to organize the mater ial should seek help from the school director and /or colleagues, particularly those who have previously completed the process and now serve on T&P committee . Great care should be taken in the prepara tion of the materials . SHS T&P Guidelines 8 Whil e a general timeline for review is provided above, t he specific due dates are determined each year by the office of the university provost. Once submitted, no materials may be added by either the candidate or the school , nor should materials be modified af ter any noted deadline date . However, the T&P c ommittee chair may request from the school director clarification or additional materials related to a candidate . Materials to Include in Online Folder (dossier) The candidate is expected to include a wide v ariety of information within their online folder. While the list below provides a brief summary and description of the primary documents that will be reviewed , the candidate should consult with the school director for a complete list of the current require ments for material upload (and numbering). For examples, items such as the initial appointment letter, annual evaluations, mid - tenure review letters, a CV cover page, lists of all internal and external grants and contracts, as well as a list of awards and honors are required. 1. The University of Memphis Curriculum Vitae a. The CV should be current and include all relevant information up to the time that the candidate submits materials for external review (by May 31 st ) . No changes should be made to the CV after that time (i.e., during the months of June - August). Doing so results in different documents being reviewed by external reviewers and committee members, often resulting in confusion. b. With regards to peer - reviewed publications ( e.g., original manuscripts, review articles, book chapters), all of the following must be provided directly under each publication listed on the CV. While it is understood that items such as impact factor and journal acceptance rate may not perfect ly assess overall research quality ( and may not apply in the same way to all fields ) , they do provide evidence pertaining to research quality and are widely used. If a candidate has other items they believe are important for consideration with regards to work quality, they are encouraged to include these under each manuscript listed on the CV. i. Candidate role s i n publication (e.g., principal i nvestigator, study design, data collection, data analysis, manuscript writer, manuscript editor, etc.) ii. Journal acceptance rate for manuscripts (if such data are available) iii. Journal impact factor iv. Article citation index 1. If data for impact factor and/or citation index are not available, the candidate should briefly describe the journal (i.e., target audience, type of publication, reputation within field of st udy). This is to provide the reviewers with a better understanding of the scholarly work and the outlet for sharing the information. v. Copies of all publications listed on the CV must be included in the online folder . Only publications that are in print or in press (i.e., fully accepted, with a letter documenting full acceptance to precede the actual manuscript when saving as a PDF ) should be considered as publications. Articles or chapters that are under review or revision, regardless of how many times they have been revised (e.g., third revis ion), are not considered publications and may be listed separately as " works in SHS T&P Guidelines 9 progress " if desired . Additionally, technical reports, articles for the lay press, and other products should not be listed under peer - revie wed ( refereed ) journal articles. c. With regards to externally funded grants and contracts , all of the following must be provided directly under each grant/contract listed on the CV: i. g the funding (e.g., principal i nvestig ator, co - investigator, chief application writer, data technician, project coordinator, consultant, statistician, etc.) ii. The title of the project iii. The funding source and type (Industry, Foundation, Government) of the project (include the funding percentile if available) iv. The duration of the project v. The total budget of the project (inclusive of all direct and indirect costs) vi. The university approved perce nt effort for the candidate during the time working on the grant/contract (30%, 10%, 1%, etc.) vii. A statement rel specific line of research inquiry 1. This information will help reviewers better understand the overall scholarly activity. NOT E: While candidates are required to list all externally funded grants and contracts on their CV, with supportive information as outlined above, candidates are strongly encouraged to also list all unfunded grant/contract applications, in addition to interna lly funded grants (e.g., Faculty Research Grants). If done, the above information should be listed under each of these listings, as available. 2. Narratives on Research, Teaching, and Service Candidates will write short (2 - 3 page, single spaced) narrative s to summarize their interests, philosophy, goals, agenda, plans, and/or accomplishments related to research, teaching, and service. The narratives should be used by the can didate to clarify, explain, and/or describe his/her roles and responsibilities on p rojects and other items listed o n the CV . Good narratives are scholarly, informative, reflective, an d descriptive. Narratives can prove very helpful to external reviewers, T& P committee members, and the school director if they can provide a link as to how research agenda, teaching assignments, community outreach, or service activities connect to each other. The narratives provide the candidate with an excellent opportunity to explain what they have done to date, why they have done it, what t hey have learned, and where they plan to go in the future. In preparing narratives, it is helpful to remember that that the intended audience includes both experts in the field (e.g., external reviewers), as well as university colleagues who may have littl Candidates should consult with the school director and/or colleagues if they have questions regarding how to construct the three narratives. 3. Student Evaluations of Teaching Effectiveness (SETEs) Candidat es should prepare a summary report for each year of the Student Evaluations of Teaching Effectiveness (SETEs), inclusive of all courses taught during that year (fall, spring, SHS T&P Guidelines 10 summer). These reports should are numeric but candidates may choose to upload the open - ended student comments as supplementary material to support their teaching effectiveness. In addition to written comments , candidates should also include other supplementary materials related to teaching such as: a. Teaching awards and recognition, pee r - evaluations of teaching effectiveness, evidence of professional development in teaching, evidence of disciplinary or interdisciplinary program or curricular development, alumni surveys and student exit interviews, evaluations by recent graduates, and oth er evidence of excellence in teaching or mentoring. b. Although not formally considered teaching, supervision of Masters theses and projects can be considered (include the student name, project title, and year of thesis/project defense). c. Note that t he only piece of evidence that is compulsory is the SETE summary using the currently approved format. 4. S ervice Specific Materials The candidate should submit all materials outlined within the service narrative that demonstrate evidence of collegiality and service to school (including administrative responsibilities such as Program Director, Internship Coordinator, Graduate Studies Coordinator) , university, profession, univers ity definitions may be included here (likely as supplemental materials). Service is a term encompassing a faculty member's activities in three areas: 1. Outreach or publi c services: The public service function of Th e University of Memphis is the u s outreach to the community and the society at large, with major emphasis on the application of knowledge for the solution of problems with which society is confronted. Outreach primarily involves sharing professional expertise and should directly suppor t the goals and mission of the u niversity. A vital component of the which characterize the teaching and research programs. Evidence of service to the community, state, or nation may be available to the c ommittee via official documents such as outreach or pubic service may involve an invited interview or talk to discuss how information obtained through faculty research may be applied in a real world setting, or the writing of lay press a rticles for the masses (specific to 2. Institutional service: Institutional service refers to work other than teaching and schola rship conducted at the school or university level. A certain amount of such service is expected of every faculty member. It is not li mited to serving on school committees, advising /mentoring students, and participating in university committees. Academic ad vising and mentoring of both undergraduate and graduate students is an important aspect of citizenship and is taken into account in faculty evaluations. Some faculty members may accept more extensive citizenship functions, such as serving as a unit coordin ator, a graduate coordinator, a leadership role in the Faculty Senate, membership on a specially appointed task force, advisor to a university - wide student organization, and membership on a university search committee. SHS T&P Guidelines 11 3. Professional service: Professional s ervice refers to the work done for organizations related to one's discipline or to the profession generally. Service to the profession includes association leadership, journal editorships, article and grant proposal review, guest lecturing on other campuse s, and other appropriate activities. While it is impossible to define the exact nature of significant professional service, clearly more is required than organizationa l membership and attendance. E xamples of significant service would be that done by an off icer of a professional organization or a member of the editorial staff of a journal. Candidates should name and describe in detail their participation in professional activities. In addition, concrete evidence must be submitted to substantiate such claims. Following are some examples of activities and roles for which credit may be claimed: a. Consultation to various institutions and a gencies as permitted by u niversity guidelines ; i nvited talks, s peeches, panels, and symposia for professional groups ; Leadership roles in professional organizations (mere attendance of meetings and dues payment do not qualify) ; c ommittee leadership roles dealing with professional affairs ; s erving as an associate editor or senio r edi tor of a professional journal; s erving as a grant reviewer for a professional or governmental organization. Requirements for Tenure and Promotion There are university - wide directives which apply to the process of tenure and /or promotion. Candidates are advised to review the most recent Faculty Handbook. In general, the candidate must be judged to show promise as a contributing member to his/her academic discipline and to the school . For all candidates, consideration will be given to their overall performance in the areas of research, teaching, and servi ce. It should be understood that while work done prior to the time at which the candidate began their employment at The University of Memphis will be considered in the overall evaluation, work done since arriving at The University of Memphis will be viewed as being far more important. Specific to this statement, candidates must demonstrate continued productivity and excellence, as outlined briefly below. With regards to teaching and service responsibilities, most candidates understand that regular perform ance at a rating of "very good " or "exceptional" is expected. This in particular includes SETE scores that meet or exceed school means, positive student comments, few or no student complaints, and regular service provided to the school , university, communi ty, and profession. Much information is included regarding both teaching and service expectations within the Faculty Handbook . Questions regarding expectations for teaching and service should be directed to the school director . Most faculty members have specific questions as pertaining to research expectations. For this reason, the information below has been included for review. Research/Scholarship: The candidate should understand that university guidelines highlight the importance of success in resear ch. For example it states within The University of Memphis F aculty Handbook research in refereed journals or media of similar SHS T&P Guidelines 12 quality is considered a reliable indicat vidence for potential of national recognition is considered the most important criterion in evaluating scholarship for promotion to associate professor; Evidence of national recognition is considered the most important criterion in evaluating scholarship for promotion both the quantity and quality of research performed. Specifically, the university asks that external reviewers answer the following quest ion: "How do you assess the quality of the With the above in mind, it is imperative that candidates establish a focused line of research that leads to significa nt peer - reviewed publications of high qua lity. In addition, all candidates within SHS , regardless of discipline should regularly (i.e., annually) attempt to secure external funding to support their research work. While it is hoped that candidates for the promotion to associate professor with tenu re would have been successful in receiving external funding by the time of application , it is expected that a successful candidate for promotion to full profess or would have met this standard on more than one occasion by the time of application. While this should be understood, successfully obtaining external funding is not an absolute requirement for promotion; however, it will be strongly considered as part of the candidate review process. The following are examples of evidence of research prod uctivity : 1. Peer - reviewed manuscripts (original investigations) 2. Peer - reviewed manuscripts (meta - analyses) 3. Peer - reviewed manuscripts (review articles) 4. Invited peer - reviewed book chapter* 5. Invited non - peer - reviewed book chapter 6. Published book (within research area of exp ertise) 7. Externally funded grants and contracts 8. Externally submitted (unfunded) grants and contracts 9. Internally funded grants and contracts 10. Internally submitted (unfunded) grants and contracts 11. Conference presentation (lecture) 12. Conference abstract presentati on (oral or poster) 13. Technical report (this might also fall under the category of service) 14. Non - peer - reviewed manuscripts (this might also fall under the category of service) 15. Editing of a book in the area of expertise (this might also fall under the category of service) 16. Published book review (this might also fall under the category of service) 17. Intellectual Property and products of commercial value a. Patents [and provisional patents] and licensed intellectual properties may be valued equally with peer - reviewed j ournals of highest quality and/or grants of significant size and scope *The invitation to contribute a book chapter within the area of expertise is one indication of potential for national recognition; it would be expected that a candidate for promotion to full SHS T&P Guidelines 13 professor would have contributed at least one invited book chapter in their area of research expertise. It should be noted that neither The University of Memphis Faculty Handbook nor this document provide firm numbers related to the above (i.e., pe er - reviewed manuscripts in particular) . The school director will provide guidance on expectations for quantity of scholarly productivity for faculty members working in SHS . If at any time questions arise regarding this important issue, faculty members shou ld speak to the school director in order to receive clarification. It should be understood that sheer quantity of research publications and external grants is not the only consideration with regards to scholarly productivity. Other items must be considered , including the overall quality of the work performed. Indeed, when making a recommendation for or against tenure and/or promotion, the reviewers and committees should consider both the quality and quantity of research, as well as teaching and service. The below text provides some information for consideration. 1. Peer - reviewed manuscripts and book chapters: Candidates sho uld strive to be Principle I nvestigator and lead author on a portion of their research work. Having lead or corresponding author distinctio work conceived by the candidate with he/she being primarily responsible for seeing the work through to completion. a. Candidates should aim to have the vast majority of their published work within thei r direct field of expertise. Being a co - author on multiple peer - reviewed may be of concern to external reviewers and reviewers at the university. b. In considering research a nd publications, quality of production will be greatly consider ed. For example, impact factors, journal acceptance rates, and other indices that ind icate quality will be reviewed . Articles in national or international refereed periodicals in the area of sp ecialization will be given much greater weight than articles in regional refereed periodicals; and certainly non - refereed journals. 2. Conference presentations and abstract presentations should be a regular part of a ed annually). 3. Grant writing and submission (in particular to external funding sources) should be a In addition to meeting the general guidelines above, candidates should keep in min d the following, as applied to the promotion to associate or full professor: Associate Professor: Potential for national recognition in a specific discipline following a focused line of research; noteworthy professional leadership contributions Full Pro fessor: National recognition in a specific discipline following a focused line of research; substantial contributions made to advance the field of study; substantial peer - reviewed publications and presentations; active involvement toward securing external funding; a record of professional leadership activity SHS T&P Guidelines 14 Collegiality Aside from the three main focal areas of research, teaching, and service, collegiality also needs to be considered. wi llingness and ability to work effectively with colleagues to support the mission of the Although evidence relating to collegiality will be most evident in the categ ory of service, collegiality (or the lack of it) can also impact performance in research and teaching. Collegiality is not separate; collegiality enhances performance in each of these areas. Because the school values teamwork, evidence of collegiality play s a role in faculty evaluation. The collegiality of the faculty member should be considered in all tenure and promotion decisions. However, collegiality should not be considered as a separate evaluative criterion; rather, it should be considered in the con text of the candidate's research/scholarship, teaching, and service/outreach. External Peer Review Policy specific area of study. The school director will requ est that candidates provide the names, contact information, and other pertinent information of five potential external reviewers ( See Appendix A for example) . No more than one external reviewer can be a past mentor or collaborator . The candidate may also s ubmit a list (with justifications) of persons who may pose a conflict for consideration. The school d irector may ask that the T&P committee provide the names (and all supporting information) for two additional reviewers. The school director will generate a dditional names to add to the list. The director must select at least one of the names suggested by the candidate. The director will then contact at least five potential external reviewers materials. Ideally, at least four external reviewers will agree to conduct the review. The school director will contact additional individuals as needed, in an attempt to receive adequate reviews. Reviewers should be chosen based on their scholarly contri butions directly within the area of research expertise. They should be employed in a higher education setting at least comparable to The University of Memphis (i.e., peer institution or higher) . They should also hold the same rank (or higher) a s the rank the candidate aspires to. For example, full professors should review applicants for promotion to professor. Every effort will be made to minimize biases for or against the candidate when selecting qualified reviewers. The external reviewers are expected to provide informed, objective evaluations rather than testimonials. The school director will provided a detailed letter outlining the responsibilities of the external reviewers, asking them to provide a written assessment of the CV , narratives, and representative sample s ) will be available for review online. The reviewers will also be provided with the T&P guidelines of the school, a s well as The University of Memphis Faculty Handbook . Each external reviewer will receive exactly the ty consideration. SHS T&P Guidelines 15 Report to the Faculty Tenure and promotion decisions of the school committee and the school director will be provost . All other candidate materials will accompany these de cisions. The candidate should be notified of the results of the outcome of th application for promotion. When the school director meets with the candidate being considered for tenure and promotion , the conversation should be restricted to the recommendations that have been made, but should not, at this time, address the reasons for the recommendations. In promotional situations that do not involve tenure, the school director is free t o discuss reasons for recommendations. Application for promotion may be withdrawn at this point. The school director should notify the candidates of the voting recommendations of the school prior to submitting documents to the p rovost. Promotion of Clini cal Faculty and Instructors Faculty members with appointments as clinical assistant or associate professors may be promoted to a higher rank as indicated in The University of Memphis Faculty Handbook . Faculty members with appointments as instructor may be promoted to a higher rank as well (e.g., senior instructor and master instructor), as indicated in The University of Memphis Faculty Handbook . H owever, clinical faculty and instructors may not be granted tenure. The process will be similar to that describe d above for tenure - track faculty members. Requirements for the various ranks are described in The University of Memphis Faculty Handbook . Mid - Tenure (Third Year) Review of Probationary Faculty The third year review, completed by the school T&P committee a nd the school director , constitutes an important part of the documentation examined in the T&P review process for untenured faculty. This review, performed at the conclusion of the third year or at the mid - point toward tenure, is completed in a similar ma n ner as the T&P process described above. However, no external reviewers are involved . As stated above, t he procedure for the mid - tenure review should be the same as that used by the school for tenure and promotion review. Deliberations and discussions of c andidate materials will take place in committee meetings. Each candidate's accomplishments should be evaluated with respect to both quantity and quality within the context of the candidate's roles and responsibilities. The format for uploading all material s to the candidate folder can be provided by the school director or an assistant . The timeline is generally as follows: 1. The school director will request that candidates upload all needed materials for review to the online folder. a. When: Prior fall semester 2. Candidates will prepare and upload all needed materials for review to the online folder by the stated deadline. a. When: Mid January 3. The school director will submit the names of faculty members to be reviewed to the school T&P c ommittee chair. a. When: Mid Janu ary SHS T&P Guidelines 16 4. The school committee will review candidate materials independently ove r a period of 2 - 3 weeks . They will then meet collectively to discuss each candidate and to comment on strengths and weaknesses. a. When: January/February 5. The school T&P committee chai r will draft a letter outlining the strengths and weaknesses of the candidate and submit to the committee for review. Once finalized, the committee chair will submit a signed electronic copy of the letter to the school director . a. When: Mid February 6. The sch ool director will review the committee recommendations, in addition to all candidate materials, and write a letter commenting on strengths and weaknesse s of the candidate. The school director will then meet with the candidate to discuss the letters of the committee and director . a. When: February 7. The letter s will a. When: Early March 8. The candidate will have an opportunity to respond in writing to anything stat ed in the committee and/or director letters. In particular, the candidate may choose to correct something that may have been stated in one of the letters that was inaccurate. The candidate letter should be submitted directly to the school director and it will become a a. When : Early March Review and Revision of SHS Tenure and Promotion Policy and Procedures The school director , in conjunction with the tenure and promotion committee , will assume responsibility for revie wing these guidelines annually and making changes as necessary. SHS T&P Guidelines 17 Append ix A Example External Reviewer Biography Mary Joe X, PhD Professor Department of Kinesiology and Health Sciences Any College USA University Hall 101 Phone : Fax: Email : Education PhD Exercise Science , University of Connecticut, 1988 MS Physiology , Uni versity of California Los Angeles, 1983 BS Biology , University of Memphis, 1978 Specialization Physiology; specific focus in cell signaling Scholarship Record Dr. X has over 90 peer - reviewed publications, in addition to 12 book chapters, and over 150 ab stract presentations. She has secured over 3 million dollars in external funding to support her research work. Director of the following laboratories: Cell Signaling and Biochemistry Laboratory: This laboratory focuses on the insulin cell signaling relate d to glucose tra nsport within skeletal muscle; s tudies are conducted at the cellular level, particularly in response to increased or decreased physical activity. Physical Activity and Aging Laboratory: Researc h in this laboratory is focused on investigati ng the effects of physical activity on skeletal muscle aging and muscle wasting, in particular as related to insulin sensitivity; the impact o f acute and chronic exercise is investigated using both humans and animal models. Affiliation with Candidate Can didate knows Dr. X from professional meetings and has read her research work. They have never collaborated together on research studies.