#http://www.memphis.edu/legal/resources/student.php
Student Matters - Legal Counsel - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Office of Legal Counsel About Contracts Immigration Forms Policies Resources Resources FAQs Other Legal Resources Home Legal Counsel Resources Student Matters Student Matters General: Where do I find the basic policies and procedures governing students at The University of Memphis? Privacy: What rules govern the privacy of student records? Office of Legal Counsel's Role: Will the Office of Legal Counsel personally represent students/faculty/staff? Disability : If I need a service or accommodation due to a disability, whom do I contact? Safety Concerns : I'm concerned for my personal safety on campus. What do I do? Reporting Crime: I witnessed a crime on campus and I want to report the crime but remain anonymous. What should I do? Sexual Harassment: What is the University's policy on sexual harassment? What resources are available on campus? File Sharing: Is it OK to download and distribute music or movies from the Internet without paying for them? Rallies &amp; Protests: What do I need to know to organize a rally, pass out literature or post banners or posters at The University of Memphis? ************************************************************************ General: Where do I find the basic policies and procedures governing students at The University of Memphis? The basic policies and procedures governing students are found at In addition please see the Student Handbook and Planner which can be picked up in the Panhellenic Building. A collection of student policies including crime awareness, drug &amp; alcohol, FERPA, harassment, sexual assault and sexual harassment, weapons, in addition to academic dishonesty and the code of right and responsibilities, is located on the Office of Judicial and Ethical Programs website at or (901) 678-2298. Privacy: What rules govern the privacy of student records? FERPA (Family Educational Rights &amp; Privacy Act) is a Federal law designed to protect the privacy of a student's education records. The law applies to all schools that receive funds under an applicable program of the U.S. Department of Education, including The University of Memphis. For more information please refer to the Office of Registrar at or (901) 678-2810. Office of Legal Counsel's Role: Will the Office of Legal Counsel personally represent students/faculty/staff? Not unless the legal matter is related to your employment at the University or a University sponsored event or activity. You can consult with the Office of Legal Counsel regarding University legal matters related to University business but please understand that the Office of Legal Counsel represents the University's interests, not an individual's interest if you are proceeding against the University. You are responsible for hiring your own attorney to handle personal legal matters. If you need help finding an attorney go to other legal resources. Employees of the University can also go through the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for assistance in finding an attorney. Disability : If I need a service or accommodation due to a disability, whom do I contact? Please refer to the Disability Resources for Students at or (901) 678-2880. Safety Concerns : I'm concerned for my personal safety on campus. What do I do? If there is an immediate threat to your safety or the safety of others, you should immediately call Police Services at 678-4357 or 911. For non-emergencies, please call Police Services at 678-3848. If you need a personal escort on campus in the evening, contact the Tiger Patrol at 678-4663. Reporting Crime: I witnessed a crime on campus and I want to report the crime but remain anonymous. What should I do? You are encouraged to report any crime to Police Services at 678-4357. If you want to maintain anonymity, you may report the crime by going to , click on forms, and then click on silent witness report. Sexual Harassment: What is the University's policy on sexual harassment? What resources are available on campus? Harassment is reprehensible and will not be tolerated by the University. The University of Memphis strives to provide a place of work and study free of sexual harassment, intimidation, or exploitation. It is expected that students, faculty and staff will treat each other with respect. Students may report claims of sexual harassment by another student to the Office of Judicial and Ethical Programs. If a student claims sexual harassment by a member of the faculty or staff, or a University vendor, please report such behavior to the Affirmative Action/EEO Officer. Please also refer to the Office of Judicial and Ethical Programs website at and The University of Memphis policy at File Sharing: Is it OK to download and distribute music or movies from the internet without paying for them? Sharing music, videos, software and other copyrighted material in violation of copyright laws may expose you and others to significant legal and University sanctions. Please refer to the Legal Counsel Office website, , for information about copyright laws. Rallies &amp; Protests: What do I need to know to organize a rally, pass out literature or post banners or posters at The University of Memphis? Recognized student groups of The University of Memphis who wish to schedule programs, speeches, rallies, information tables, banners and posters should contact Ms. LaRuth Lofties at (901) 678-2041. For more information, please review the following policies and procedures: Additionally, all rallies, protests or student gatherings must comply with the University's policy regarding noise and amplification. See: . Resources FAQs Other Legal Resources Contact Us For more information about the Office of Legal Counsel and the services provided What To Do If... Common questions regarding legal matters Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .