#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/lson_tp_reqs_fall2015.pdf
Promotion Criteria : Tenured and Tenure Track Faculty Updated 2/06/2015 Introduction The evaluation of faculty in the Loewenberg School of Nursing for the purposes of tenure and/or promotion reflects the mission of the University of Memphis: teaching, resea rch/scholarship, and service. Faculty who desire consideration for tenure and/or promotion must provide evidence of effective teaching as well as productivity in the areas of research/scholarship and service. The review of faculty for purposes of tenure an d/or promotion is based on the policies and standards set forth in the current U of M Faculty Handbook which can be accessed at aa/resources/facres/facultyhandbook/docs/2014_faculty_handbook.pdf Tenure track faculty are annually reviewed by the Tenure and Promotion Committee for progress towards tenure. While some subjectivity is inherent in all evaluation processes, the criteri a identified in this document are aimed at making the process as objective as possible. In compiling data for review and other assistance , tenure track faculty me m bers are encouraged to consult tenured faculty as recommended by the chairperson. Tenure and Promotion Calendar The tenure and promotion LSON. The cale ndar changes on a yearly basis. Faculty Effort The general effort expected by the faculty is: Teaching 40 - 60% Res earch/Scholarship 20 - 50% Service 10 - 30% Appointment and Promotion Criteria Assistant Professor: 1. Earned doctorate from an accredited institution in nursing or related area 2. Evidence of potential ability in instruction of undergraduate and/or graduate nur sing students 3. Evidence of potential ability to provide public service ( LSON, University of Memphis, and the nursing community ) 4. Evidence of potential ability to actively conduct research and scholarly work 5. Evidence of professional integrity and academic res ponsibility Associate Professor: 1. Earned doctorate from an accredited institution in nursing or related area 2. Minimum of five years teaching experience of undergraduate and/or graduate nursing students 3. Documented evidence of ability in instruction of undergr aduate and/or graduate nursing students 4. Documented e vidence of public service ( LSON, University of Memphis, and the nursing community ) 5. Documented e vidence of consistent research and scholarly work (such as publication in peer reviewed journals and funded r esearch projects) 6. Documented evidence of high quality professional productivity which is leading to national recognition in nursing 7. Evidence of professional integrity and academic responsibility Professor: 1. Earned doctorate from an accredited institution in nursing or related area 2. Minimum of ten years professional experience in higher education 3. Documented evidence of e xcellence in teaching undergraduate and/or graduate nursing students 4. Documented evidence of o utstanding public service ( LSON, University of M emphis, and the nursing community ) 5. Documented evidence of a focused program of resear ch (such as publication in peer - reviewed journals, funded research projects, textbooks, and professional presentations) 6. Documented evidence of sustained high quality profe ssional productivity and national recognition in the academic discipline 7. Evidence of professional integrity and a high degree of academic responsibility Promotion Criteria: Clinical Faculty Introduction According to the Tennessee Board of Regents Policy, 5:02:07:10, revised on June 20, 2014. - appointments - universities Clinical - track a ppointments are full - time faculty appoint ments; are non - tenurable appointments for a fixed term; are renewable; permit promotion in rank; and permit conversion of the appointment to tenure - track at any time prior to but not later than the expiration of the first three - year term, depending on fun ding availability and faculty performance. 1. In instances where the appointment is converted to tenure - track, the three (3) years served in the Clinical - track appointment, at the discretion of the president, may be credited toward the ionary status. 2. Faculty in this classification participate in the academic programs by providing professional educational experiences in clinical/professional sett ings where the faculty members practice. 3. Clinical - track appointments may be supported, in whole or in part, by appropriated funds or funding from grants or contracts, from clinical practice or clinical/professional facilities, or from other sources. Cli nical Assistant Professor 1. Mi nimum of in nursing from an accredited institution 2. Minimum of two years of clinical experience in discipline of nursing 3. Evidence of potential a bility to teach undergraduate and/or graduate nursing students 4. Evid ence of potential ability to provide public service ( LSON, University of Memphis, and the nursing community ) 5. Ability to integrate evidence - based state - of - the - art knowledge and technology into teaching 6. Evidence of professional integrity and academic respon sibility Clinical Associate Professor 1. Mi 2. National board certification in area of specialty 3. Minimum of five years teaching experience of undergraduate and/or graduate nursing students 4. Docume nted evidence of ability in teaching undergraduate and/or graduate nursing students 5. Documented e vidence of public service ( LSON, University of Memphis, and the nursing community ) 6. Evidence of a bility to integrate state - of - the - art knowledge and technology i nto teaching 7. Evidence of professional integrity and academic responsibility Clinical Professor 1. Earned doctorate from an accredited institution in nursing or related area (this criteria is implemented in fall 2015) 2. National board certification in area of sp ecialty 3. Minimum of ten years teaching experience of undergraduate and/or graduate nursing students 4. Documented evidence of e xcellence in teaching undergraduate and/or graduate nursing students 5. Documented evidence of extensive public service ( LSON, Universi ty of Memphis, and the nursing community ) 6. Evidence of excellence in integration of evidence - based state - of - the - art knowledge and technology into teaching 7. Evidence of professional integrity and a high degree of academic responsibil i ty Procedure for Promoti on of Clinical Track Faculty The review of clinical faculty for purposes of promotion is based on the policies and standards set forth in the current U of M Faculty Handbook Clinical faculty is annually reviewed by the Tenure and Promotion Committee. When clinical faculty is evaluated for promotion, the Tenure an d Promotion Committee will invite higher ranked clinical faculty to participate in the evaluation process. The Tenure and Promotion Committee provides the recommendation to the Dean.