#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/ccfa/muap.php
MUAP - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions MUAP MUAP (MUAP) APPLIED MUSIC Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music John Chiego, M.M. Room 123B, Music Building Applied music courses are divided into three categories, individual lessons in vocal or instrumental performance, musical ensembles, and classes. Individual lessons in vocal or instrumental performance are offered as INTRODUCTORY INSTRUCTION, LOWER DIVISION, AND UPPER DIVISION applied music (see explanation below). Individual lessons in vocal or instrumental performance are given by university faculty who are members of the relevant Applied Music Division. All students who wish to enroll in applied vocal or instrumental performance must perform an audition for the members of the appropriate Applied Music Division or for a designee of the appropriate division. Because the number of students who can be accepted is limited, it is advisable that the student audition as early as possible to be assured a place with the requested teacher. Practice facilities are provided without charge, but there are additional fees for the individual lessons (see the explanation below under FEES), and a fee is required for certain practice room keys. Examinations for courses in which the student is to receive credit for applied music in vocal or instrumental performance are called Board Exams. For Board Exams, each student performs musical selections and/or technical exercises of a grade of difficulty appropriate to the level of instruction in which the student is enrolled. The board hearing the exam is made up of the members of the appropriate Applied Music Division (for further information, see the explanation below under EXAMINATIONS). Undergraduate music majors at the University of Memphis are required to participate in School of Music large ensembles as assigned during each semester they are enrolled in individual lesson applied music study; each degree program has specific or general ensemble requirements (see above under the various degree requirements). Non-music majors enrolled at the University of Memphis as degree-seeking students may audition and, if accepted, enroll for applied instruction where staff time is available. If accepted at the Lower Division or Upper Division level for applied instruction, non-music majors must simultaneously enroll and participate in a large ensemble sponsored by the School of Music. Any student enrolled at the University of Memphis may audition for applied jazz lessons as space permits. Any student accepted for applied jazz lessons must concurrently participate in an appropriate jazz ensemble or combo. Jazz ensemble assignments are made following the jazz auditions during registration week at the beginning of the semester. All jazz and studio bass majors must simultaneously be enrolled in classical bass, MUAP 1541 until a level of proficiency equal to entrance into upper division is attained. All jazz and studio guitar majors must take six semester hours of classical guitar which is the maximum allowable for credit toward the degree. If a student can meet the requirements in less time, and wishes to discontinue classical study, the student may do so with permission of the instructor and consultation with the jazz and studio faculty. In the event a student cannot meet the requirements after six semester hours of study, it is the student's responsibility to pursue classical guitar as an elective or until such time as requirements are met to the satisfaction of the guitar and jazz and studio faculty. FEES: In addition to the regular student fees, all persons taking applied music will be assessed $160 per semester for the half-hour lessons. Students registering for one (1) semester hour credit will receive one half-hour lesson per week. All others will receive one hour lesson per week regardless of credit hours at a fee of $320. The integration courses, Artist Recital and Senior Project in Music, are taught as applied and require a $320fee. The Senior Composition Recital and Senior Project in Music History are also taught as applied but do not carry a fee. APPLIED MUSIC COURSES In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MUAP 4260-69. Special Topics in Applied Music. (1-3). Topics are varied and in the online class listings. Introductory Instruction Lower Division Upper Division Instrument 1 hour 2-3 hours 2-4 hours 4000 level 1-2 hours 6000 level Trumpet 1110 1111 4111-6111 Horn 1120 1121 4121-6121 Trombone 1130 1131 4131-6131 Jazz Trombone 1132 4132 Tuba 1140 1141 4141-6141 Euphonium 1142 4142-6142 Cornet 1150 1151 4151-6151 Sackbut 1160 1161 4161-6161 Piano 1310 1311 4311-6311 Harpsichord 1320 1321 4321-6321 Organ 1330 1331 4331-6331 Percussion 1410 1411 4411-6411 Ethnic Percussion 1413 1414 4414-6414 Jazz Mallets 1415 Violin 1510 1511 4511-6511 Baroque Violin 1512 4512-6512 Viola 1520 1521 4521-6521 Cello 1530 1531 4531-6531 Bass 1540 1541 4541-6541 Guitar 1550 1551 4551-6551 Harp 1560 1561 4561-6561 Viola da Gamba 1570 1571 4571-6571 Voice 1610 1611 4611-6611 Flute 1710 1711 4711-6711 Oboe 1720 1721 4721-6721 Clarinet 1730 1731 4731-6731 Saxophone 1740 1741 4741-6741 Jazz Saxophone 1742 4742 Bassoon 1750 1751 4751-6751 Recorder 1760 1761 4761-6761 Jazz Trumpet 1112 4112 Jazz Piano 1312 4312 Jazz Percussion 1412 4412 Jazz Bass 1542 4542 Jazz Guitar 1552 4552 Jazz Voice 1612 4612 Applied Music Lessons consist of individual instruction on the above listed instruments as well as attendance at weekly studio classes run by the instructor for the individual instruments. Studio class attendance is required for music majors. Studio classes generally meet on Fridays at 12:35 p.m., but students should contact the instructor for the exact day and time their studio class meets. In addition, music majors enrolled in applied lessons must also attend the area workshops scheduled in their respective areas. REGISTRATION: Students will register for lessons in the same manner and at the same time as they register for other courses; however, students may not be assigned to a course number until they have auditioned. Auditions are held in the Music Building on specific days throughout the year as posted on the School of Music website ( ). Auditions may be scheduled in the School of Music Admission Office, Room 125, Music Building. Any inquiries concerning credits or course numbers should be directed to the Associate Director for Undergraduate Studies of the School of Music. CREDITS AND GRADES: Students earning more than two credits per semester in applied lessions will be assigned additional practice and material, and will be expected to perform at a higher level than those students registered for two credits. REPETITION OF COURSES: MUAP courses in individual lessons, small ensembles, and large ensembles may be repeated for credit but not for the purpose of improving the grade originally earned. EXAMINATIONS: For an examination in applied music, students will prepare and perform for members of the faculty of the School of Music suitable musical selections and technical exercises of a grade of difficulty appropriate to their standing. Examinations are held in designated rooms on days set aside for this purpose near the end of each semester. Credit for the course will not be awarded to any student who fails to take the examination. INTRODUCTORY INSTRUCTION: Any student may audition for lessons at the one-hour level except in organ; organ students must have the ability to play the piano before beginning organ instruction. A student may not receive more than two hours credit in any one area of introductory level instruction. The fee for introductory level instruction will be the same as for one half-hour lesson per week: $160 per semester. LOWER DIVISION COURSES: Applied music courses in the lower division include the study normally carried out during the freshman and sophomore years. Piano or instrumental students at this level should have had several years of intensive study prior to university entrance so that they have a secure, reliable, and well-grounded technique on the instrument. Organ students may begin at this level provided that they play the piano well and have reasonable ability in sight-reading. Those who do not meet this requirement will register for MUAP 1310. To be admitted to lower division study a student must first pass a qualifying examination. Students who fall short of the requirements for admission to the lower-division courses will be advised to register for introductory instruction until deficiencies are eliminated. Course numbers will be repeated for each semester of study. UPPER DIVISION COURSES: Promotion to the upper division does not follow automatically after the completion of four semesters of courses in the lower division but is made only on the recommendation of the upper division examining committee; such a recommendation will be made only if the student's proficiency as a performer bears promise of future artistic and professional qualities as a soloist. It is at this level that the student normally begins preparation for a recital. JUNIOR RECITAL, ARTIST RECITAL, and SENIOR PERFORMANCE PROJECT: The Junior Recital is required for the Performance Concentration under the Bachelor of Music in Music degree. The Artist Recital is required for the Performance Concentration. The Senior Performance Project is required under the School of Music Concentration. The Artist Recital and the Senior Performance Project are integration courses for which the student must prepare both a public recital and a paper. To register for the Junior Recital and the Senior Performance Project, students must have successfully completed at least two years of credit in upper division lessons in their applied area. To register for the Artist Recital, students must have successfully completed at least four hours of credit in upper division lessons in their applied area. The Junior Recital must be approved by the appropriate applied music faculty through a hearing. Both the musical and the written portions of the Artist Recital and the Senior Performance Project must be approved by the appointed faculty committee through a reading and a hearing. Upon approval, the student may schedule a date for the public performance and make arrangements for the printing of the program. The public performance must be presented no later than two weeks after the date of the hearing. ENSEMBLES: Music majors must register for all ensembles that are required under their curricular concentration for credit. After that requirement is met, full-time music majors may be accepted into any ensemble for zero credit by permission of instructor. All enrollees will be graded, with the grade appearing on the transcript as usual. SMALL, CHAMBER, AND SPECIALIZED ENSEMBLES: Advanced students are encouraged (and for certain degree plans are required) to participate in the following groups. Selection for membership is based on audition; courses may be repeated with the approval of the student's advisor. Three one-hour meetings per week. Chamber Music Strings Chamber Music Keyboard Brass Ensemble Woodwind Ensemble Percussion Ensemble Double Bass Ensemble Guitar Ensemble Cello Ensemble Trombone Ensemble Trumpet Ensemble Tuba Ensemble Jazz Combo Contemporary Chamber Players Collegium Musicum Chamber Choir Opera Workshop Sound Fuzion Pep Band LARGE ENSEMBLES All music students must take a minimum of eight (8) semesters of ensemble. The exact number of small ensembles is determined by each division and major concentration. Therefore, it is necessary to consult with your advisor for the specific outline for your applied area and degree program. Transfer students lacking sufficient large ensemble credits should consult with their advisor and/or the department chair to determine a method of satisfying the ensemble requirement. Ensemble assignments are based on audition and may be repeated. Any exception to this general ensemble policy may be made after a review of petitions by the Associate Director for Undergraduate Studies, the appropriate ensemble director, and the applied studio teacher. Orchestra Wind Ensemble Marching Band Symphonic Band University Band University Singers Collegiate Choir (Only for MUID students and others assigned by the Director of University Singers) University Instrumental Jazz Ensemble University Vocal Jazz Ensemble MUAP 1100 - Class Piano Non-Major (1) Beginning instruction in piano for non-music majors; development of basic reading and performance skills. MUAP 1105 - Class Inst Piano I (1) Basic technique, repertoire, and skills based on major and minor white-key scales and diatonic harmonies. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 1001 or permission of instructor. MUAP 1106 - Class Instr Piano II (1) Technique, repertoire, and skills based on major, minor, and modal scales. PREREQUISITE: MUAP 1105; MUTC 1008, 1010. MUAP 1116 - Jazz Class Piano (1) Basic harmonic patterns, chord symbol realization, voicing, basic rhythmic patterns. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 1105, or equivalency exam. MUAP 1118 - Class Instruction Guitar (2) (MUSE 1118). Group instruction in basic classical guitar technique, chord study, and note reading. Open to non-music majors; no audition required. MUAP 2001 - Symphonic Band (1) Performance of traditional and contemporary wind compositions. Participants chosen from this ensemble for basketball pep-bands. Open to music majors and non-music majors. MUAP 2002 - Marching Band (2) Selected ensemble that performs at all home football games and occasional out-of-town games in each season. Rehearsal approximately ten hours weekly. Open to music majors and non-music majors. MUAP 2003 - University Band (1) Concert performance of traditional and contemporary wind compositions. Participants are chosen from this ensemble for basketball pep-bands and usually have participated in Fall marching band. Open to music majors and non-music majors. MUAP 2004 - University Gospel Choir (1) Ensemble open to all students. Music includes contemporary gospel, spirituals, and gospel hymns. Serves as outlet for students interested in developing musical and personal capacities. Open to music majors as elective. Two class meetings per week. MUAP 2007 - Collegiate Choir (1) Choir for music and non-music majors; study and perform choral literature from variety of style periods and origins. MUAP 2008 - Pep Band (1) The Pep Band is a selected ensemble that performs at all men's and women's home basketball games, and occasional conference and national tournaments out-of-town each season. Rehearsals are approximately one hour weekly from November through March. Members chosen for this ensemble usually have participated in Marching Band in the previous fall semester. Open to music and non-music majors. MUAP 2107 - Class Instruction in Piano III (1) Technique, repertoire,and functional skills pertinent to student's vocal or instrumental classification; non-diatonic harmonies. PREREQUISITE: MUAP 1106,MUTC 1009, 1011. MUAP 2108 - Class Instruct Piano IV (1) Technique repertoire and functional skills pertinent to student's vocal or instrumental classification; extended and altered harmonies. Successful completion satisfies the core requirements of the piano proficiency exam. PREREQUISITE: MUAP 2107; MUTC 1009, 1011. MUAP 2201 - Techniques in Woodwind Instru (1) Introduction to historical woodwind instruments; historical playing techniques for both historical and modern instruments. MUAP 3004 - Wind Ensemble (1) Select ensemble of instrumentalists. Study and performance of outstanding repertory for wind ensembles. Open to music majors and non-music majors through audition. MUAP 3005 - University Orchestra (1) Study and performance of major orchestral literature. Additional opportunities for opera, chamber-orchestral and chamber ensemble performance. Audition required. MUAP 3006 - University Singers (1) Study and performance of choral works from broad spectrum of choral literature; sacred, secular, accompanied and a cappella. Open to music majors and non-music majors through audition. MUAP 3007 - Opera Chorus (1) Choral ensemble for opera productions with exploration of related stage techniques. Extra rehearsals at discretion of conductor. Audition required. MUAP 3008 - Oratorio Chorus (1) Study and performance of major works primarily oratorio in nature. Open to music majors, non-music majors and the off-campus community. Audition required. MUAP 3012 - Univ Instrumentl Jazz Ensemble (1) Study and performance of varied jazz styles, including repertory from standard big band literature and studio ensembles. Open to music majors and non-majors through audition. This course will meet large ensemble requirements for Music Industry majors only. MUAP 3013 - Univ Voice Jazz Ensemble (1) Study and performance of varied jazz styles, including repertory from standard big band literature and studio ensembles. Open to music majors and non-majors through audition. This course will meet large ensemble requirements for Music Industry majors only. MUAP 3014 - Recording Studio Instr Ensembl (1) Ensemble performs and records works written by students in the Music Industry program. This course will meet large ensemble requirements for Music Industry majors only. MUAP 3015 - Recording Studio Vocal Ensmble (1) Ensemble performs and records works written by students in the Music Industry program. This course will meet large ensemble requirements for Music Industry majors only. MUAP 3016 - Sound Fuzion (1) Preparation and performance of vocal/instrumental music from American popular culture. May be repeated for credit. Entrance by audition. MUAP 3101 - Brass Ensemble (1) Practical applications of brass performance techniques for a small chamber ensemble, one performer to a part; survey of brass chamber music. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MUAP 3103 - Jazz Combo (1) Practical application of basic jazz improvisatory skills; combo experiences in all jazz styles; traditional, bop, contemporary. Audition required. MUAP 3104 - Collegium Musicum (1) Use of early musical instruments and voice in performance of early music; primary sources used in preparation of performances. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MUAP 3301 - Chamber Music/Keyboard (1) Collaborative performance for pianist, harpsichordists, and organists with keyboard, brass, winds, strings, percussion, and vocalists; open to students in keyboard concentration and others through audition. MUAP 3401 - Percussion Ensemble (1) Study and performance of selected traditional, contemporary, avant garde and pops percussion literature. Open to students in percussion concentration and others through audition. MUAP 3402 - Contemporary Chamber Player (1) Ensemble of mixed and variable instrumentation; performance of repertoire written since 1900 and little known works of other periods. Primary goal of ensemble: to provide experiences in solving unique performance problems of contemporary music. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MUAP 3403 - Orff Ensemble (1) Study and performance of literature written for Orff instruments, including barred percussion, unpitched percussion, and recorder. MUAP 3501 - Chamber Music/Strings (1) Study and performance of string chamber music repertory. Coaching sessions weekly with a member of music faculty. Open to music majors and non-majors through audition. MUAP 3503 - Double Bass Ensemble (1) Study and performance of works for bass ensemble. Open to music majors and non-majors through audition. MUAP 3504 - Guitar Ensemble (1) Study and performance of works for guitar ensemble. Open to majors and non-majors through audition. MUAP 3505 - Cello Ensemble (1) Study and performance of works for cello ensemble. Open to music majors and non-majors through audition. MUAP 3506 - Trombone Ensemble (1) Study and performance of repertory for multiple trombones. Open to music majors and non-music majors through audition. MUAP 3507 - Tuba Ensemble (1) A performance based ensemble that addresses significant technical and musical challenges typically not met for the tuba and euphonium in other ensembles. Literature performed in this group consists of serious original compositions for tuba ensemble, transcriptions of orchestral literature, and lighter transcriptions. The ensemble will perform on campus for Octubafest and in the community for Tubachristmas. Other performances include regional, national, and international conferences. MUAP 3508 - Trumpet Ensemble (1) Study and performance of works for trumpet ensemble. Open to music majors and non-majors through audition. MUAP 3601 - Chamber Choir (1) Vocal ensemble specializing in choral music from the Renaissance to the present. Open to music majors and non-music majors through audition. MUAP 3602 - Opera Workshop (6) MUAP 3603 - Opera Soloists (1) Preparation and performance of role in major production of University Opera Theater. Audition required. MUAP 3604 - Opera Production Lab (1-6) MUAP 3701 - Woodwind Ensemble (1) Study and performance of original and transcribed works for varied combinations of woodwind instruments. Audition required. MUAP 3999 - Junior Recital (1) MUAP 4004 - Orchestral Excerpts (1-2) Study and performance of selected orchestral excerpts suitable for auditions. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MUAP 4103 - Jazz/Studio Ensemble Techiques (3) (CMUS). Jazz and studio performance styles and practices, emphasizing ensemble rehearsal and conducting techniques, articulation, phrasing, balance and blend, line dominance, and recording studio performance skills. (F). PREREQUISITE: MUTC 3828. MUAP 4263 - Reed Making (1) Topics are varied and in the online class listings. MUAP 4301 - Acting for Opera I (3) Essential acting techniques for singers, with special attention to application to operatic stage. MUAP 4302 - Acting for Opera II (3) Essential acting techniques for singers, with special attention to application to operatic stage. MUAP 4801 - Individual Study Applied Music (1-3) Directed individual instruction in applied area not listed under MUAP. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: permission of director. MUAP 4895 - Sr Proj Jazz/Studio Perform (3) (CMUS). Project must include live and recorded performances demonstrating the student's mastery of various styles of jazz and popular music performance. PREREQUISITE: upper division standing in applied music, MUTC 3827, or permission of instructor. MUAP 4999 - Artist Recital (4) Integration course in which knowledge and skills developed in music history, music theory, and applied music courses are utilized systematically in the preparation and presentation of a public musical performance and of an accompanying descriptive paper. Taught as applied music, individual instruction. PREREQUISITE: a minimum of 4 hours upper division lessons; permission of the instructor. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .