#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11402
Assistant Professor Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant Professor Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC439 Advertised Title Assistant Professor Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 002239 Category Full-Time Faculty Department University Libraries Position Summary The Health Sciences Librarian provides leadership and direction for the overall operations of the Health Sciences Library of the University of Memphis. Located on the Park Avenue Campus in the Community Health Building, the Health Sciences Library serves the students and faculty of the School of Nursing and the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. As a member of the faculty, he/she participates in the University Libraries’ Collection Development Program, serves as subject liaison to assigned department(s), participates in the User Instruction Program, and provides user assistance as a part of the Health Sciences library team. As a faculty member, he/she maintains an appropriate research and publication agenda. The Health Sciences Library is a part of the Libraries’ Branches Department. Minimum Position Qualifications This is a 12 month, tenure track, faculty position that requires an ALA accredited M.L.S. degree and appropriate, relevant library work experience. Faculty members are expected to conduct research, provide professional service, and publish their work in appropriate professional publications. Subject knowledge in a discipline in the Health Sciences is preferred. Possession of a second graduate degree or substantial continual progress toward completion of a second graduate degree is required to be eligible for tenure and/or promotion. Special Conditions This position requires a varying work schedule and may include some scheduled evening and weekend hours. The specific work schedule may change from week to week depending on the needs of the library and the responsibilities of the position. Posting Date 11/02/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range competitive Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Application must include cover letter, resume and contact information for at least five references. For prompt consideration, submit application by November 30, 2015. Instructions to Applicant regarding references Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). * How did you hear about this employment opportunity? Public Job Posting Internal Job Posting Agency Referral Advertisement/Publication Personal Referral Website Other Applicant Documents Required Documents Resume Cover Letter References List Optional Documents Curriculum Vitae