#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/facres/tenurepromotion/docs/guidelines/university_college.pdf
University College Tenure and Promotion Guidelines, p. 1 Revised Aug. 2007 University College Tenure and Promotion Guidelines * TABLE OF CONTENTS I. Composition of the Tenure and Promotion Committee II. Procedures to Be Followed by the Tenure and Promotion Committee III. Basic University Guidelines in Regard to Tenure and Promotion IV. Specific Evidence as Required by the Committee V. External Peer Review Policy VI. Tenure and Promotion Timeline * Information r egarding tenure and/or promotion presented in the most recent University of Memphis Faculty Handbook takes precedence over the college™s tenure and promot ion guidelines. University College Tenure and Promotion Guidelines, p. 2 University College Tenure and Promotion Guidelines I. The University College Committee on Tenure and Promotion will be selected and function as follows: A. The University College Tenure and Promotion Committee shall be composed of all tenured associate professors and professors in University College except any tenured faculty member applying for promotion and the dean. Faculty from other units will be invited to participate any time there are less than three members available to serve. B. One of the tenure and promotion committee members will be elected by the committee members to serve as the chair of the committee. C. The committee on tenure and promotion will periodically review the guidelines for tenure and promotion. Proposed revisions will be reviewed and recommended for approval by the college™s faculty members. . II. The following procedures are to be followed by the University College Committee on Tenure and Promotion: A. The candidate shall submit a letter indicating eligibility and desire to be considered for tenure and/or promotion to the associate dean along with a current curriculum vita and a list of five names (including telephone numbers, addresses, nature of professional relationship, and brief professional profile) of potential external reviewers. B. Faculty members to be considered for tenure and/or promotion must assume responsibility to insure that all pertinent information in the areas of teaching, research and service is available to the tenure and promotion committee. C. The tenure and promotion committee must not only determine each candidate's present qualifications for tenure and/or promotion, but must also consider the potential for each candidate for development. The appraisal of each candidate must be more than a mere review of his or her activities in teaching, research and service. An evaluation of these activities must be supported by substantial evidence. D. All University criteria (teaching, scholarship, and service) and specific criteria decided upon by the college should be applied to the candidate's accomplishments before recommendations are made. In order for a faculty member to receive tenure/promotion in the college he/she must show evidence of having fulfilled all the terms stipulated in his/her employment contract. The committee's recommendations are forwarded to the dean. E. The specific procedures of the Universi ty College Tenure and Promotion Committee are as follows: 1. Schedule (Dates vary annually) The committee will meet on to determine procedures. University College Tenure and Promotion Guidelines, p. 3 All dossiers must be in the hands of associate dean by the date of September 1 . After above date, committee members may check out dossiers from the associate dean™s office. Dossiers may not be taken out of the unit. Committee members are particularly requested to look for areas in the candidates' dossiers which need additional evidence and support. The committee will meet as follows: The final recommendation of the committee together with reasons for those recommendations will be submitted to the dean by . 2. Dossiers (See Dossiers, Faculty Handbook.) (See Documenting for Tenure & Promotion, Faculty Handbook.) Nothing may be added to or removed from a candidate's dossier after it has been evaluated by the tenure and promotion committee. All dossiers will be considered confidential, kept in the office of the associate dean and will be available only to members of the Committee. The candidate's materials should include: a. A representative file of his/her teaching activities, research/ scholarly accomplishments and service/outreach activities. An appropriate and a reflective narrative should accompany each section. Each candidate will submit these data in no more than 3 separate notebooks-each not to exceed 3 inches in width. Each candidate should include samples of exemplary activities in each of the relevant categories. b. A copy of the Faculty Member's contract. c. Annual Evaluations d. Third Year Evaluations e. the candidate's University of Memphis Curriculum Vita. The applicant's University of Memphis Curriculum Vita, external review letters and application for Tenure and Promotion form, placed in a separate binder congruent with university guidelines, will be forwarded to the Provost following review by the dean. 3. Deliberations Each candidate will receive individual consideration for tenure and/or promotion in accordance with the application. If additional information is required by the Committee, the Committee Chair will so advise the candidate(s). All deliberations will be held in strict confidence. No formal records will be made of the discussions. Inform al notes made by committee members University College Tenure and Promotion Guidelines, p. 4 during discussions will be discarded because such materials are subject to review in case committee deliberations are challenged by the candidate. However, the Committee Chair will make a final report on the decisions of the Committee to the associate dean. Discussions will be objective and will adhere to the consideration of the established criteria for tenure and promotion. All members of the Committee must be present for each meeting. A candidate may be requested to appear before the Committee to speak in his or her own behalf. Likewise, a candidate may initiate such procedure him/herself. However, in both instances, the Committee determines the need and makes the decision regarding the personal appearance of the candidate. 4. Voting Voting will be by secret ballot. Approval of an application for tenure or for promotion will require at least 2/3 in favor. The results of the balloting will be given to the associate dean. III. The University policy on tenure and promotions is viewed as a general statement upon which college™s criteria are based. The committee and dean should consult The University of Memphis Faculty Handbook for university guidelines relevant to decisions concerning the awarding of tenure and promotion. IV. Specific Evidence as Required by the Tenure and Promotion Committee: The materials specified in The University of Memphis example dossier must be included. See the U of M Faculty Handbook. A. Instruction The faculty member must submit evidence of teaching effectiveness as follows: 1. Summary of Student Evaluations as specified by the Faculty Handbook 2. Annual Evaluation Reports 3. Evaluation by peers as reflected in Annual Evaluation Reports B. Research and/or other Scholarly and Creative Activities in Area of Specialization The faculty member should submit evidence of activities from among the following areas: 1. Published or edited books or journals 2. Published monographs 3. Published articles in refereed journals University College Tenure and Promotion Guidelines, p. 5 4. Service on editorial boards for professional journals 5. Other scholarly or creative activities, e.g. juried exhibitions, invited or refereed research presentations, seminars or workshops based on faculty member's research in area of specialization 6. Grants and Contracts C. Service/Outreach/Advising/Mentoring/Administration The faculty member should submit evidence of service in the following areas: 1. Public Service Service to community agencies and organizations as consultant or advisor 2. Institutional Service a. Service to the unit including committee chairmanship and membership, program development, student advising/ mentoring and/or student organization advising b. Service to the college including committee chairmanship and membership c. Service to the University including committee chairmanship and membership 3. Professional Service Service to professional organizations (local, state, regional, national or international) as officer, speaker, or consultant V. External Peer Review Policy (See Faculty Handbook) The Candidate shall submit a letter indicating eligibility and desire to be considered for tenure and/or promotion to the associate dean along with a current curriculum vita and a list of five names (including telephone numbers, addresses, nature of professional relationship, and a brief professional profile) of potential external reviewers. The associate dean will add five names to the Candidate's list. The Candidate's list, along with the names added by the associate dean, will be forwarded to the Tenure and Promotion Committee. The Tenure and Promotion Committee will rank order the potential reviewers and forward the list of names to the associate dean. Reviewers will be qualified peers who are not affiliated with The University of Memphis. Every effort will be made to minimize biases for or against the candidate when selecting qualified reviewers. Letters from doctoral and post- doctoral mentors are discouraged but if included should be so identified. A minimum of five external reviewers should be included in the candidate's tenure and promotion file. The associate dean will subsequently write to the selected reviewers requesting a confidential, written assessment of the Candidate's scholarly activity. A copy of the Candidate's curriculum vita along with the University's guidelines for tenure/promotion will be University College Tenure and Promotion Guidelines, p. 6 included. The external reviewers' letters of assessment will be part of the tenure and promotion materials at all stages of review. VI. Tenure and Promotion Timeline Spring of Candidate's Third Year Third Year Review: See Faculty Handbook. Spring of Candidate's Fifth Year March 15 Candidate's letter of eligibility, curriculum vita, and external reviewer information due to the associate dean. April 15 Confirmation of external reviewers' willingness to participate in evaluation process Fall of Candidate's Sixth Year September 1 Submission of a ll credentials for review by the Tenure and Promotion Committee