#http://www.memphis.edu/sph/programs/
Programs - SPH - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Public Health About Programs People Students &amp; Alumni News Programs MHA Admissions Apply Now Competencies Day One Internship Handbook Mission, Vision and Values Newsletter Program Requirements Admissions Apply Now Competencies Mission, Vision and Values Program Requirements MPH Admissions Apply Now Competencies Handbook Practicum Program Requirements Epi PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook HSP PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook SBS PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook Population Health Certificate Interpreter Course Interpreter Course Information Interpreter Course Requirements Interpreter Course Registration &amp; Payment Home SPH Programs School of Public Health Programs The School of Public Health offers two master's degree programs – the Master of Public Health (MPH) and the Master of Health Administration (MHA), and three doctoral programs – in Epidemiology, Health Systems and Policy, and Social and Behavioral Sciences. SPH also offers a new graduate certificate in Population Health and an accredited Health Care Interpreter Course, a specialized educational program for individuals who are proficient in two or more languages. Master of Public Health(MPH) The Master of Public Health program is for anyone with a passion for improving health on a large scale. The MPH program integrates academic rigor with real-world solutions to promote healthy communities, and offers concentrations in Biostatistics, Environmental Health, Epidemiology, Health Systems Administration, and Social and Behavioral Sciences. Our program attracts mid-career professionals who want to engage in preventive health, but is also suited for graduates of various disciplines, such as anthropology, business, dietetics, medicine, law, nursing, psychology, and social work, among others. With evening courses on campus and online, it is a program designed to fit busy lifestyles. More than 30 practicum placement locations are available, including the Shelby County Health Department . In summer 2015, five MPH students went to Haiti for their practicum assignments . Graduates with an MPH are in high demand; by 2020, over 250,000 more public health professionals will be needed to fill critical leadership positions in private, non-profit, government, and international organizations. A JD/MPH dual degree program is now being offered, and applications are currently being accepted for Fall 2015 enrollment; click here for details. The MPH may also be taken as part of a dual degree with another master's program. In these cases, the MPH may be earned in one year (three semesters). Master of Health Administration(MHA) The Master of Health Administration program is one of 83 programs accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME), and the only one accredited in Tennessee. The MHA program was ranked in the Top 20 by Modern Healthcare in 2014, and US News &amp; World Report listed it among the best in the nation in 2015 for Healthcare Management. The 53 credit hour program offers both full and part-time options to fit your career and life. The MHA program ensures that students have the necessary competencies— knowledge, skills, and abilities—to achieve success. The program is tailored to our students, whether starting a career right out of college or returning to graduate school in order to better prepare for promotion or career transition. In May 2016, we will launch an Executive MHA option that combines on-line education with seven weekends on campus over a two-year period. Epidemiology (EPI) Doctoral Program The Epidemiology Doctoral Program is designed for students who want to conduct original research in epidemiology and become productive, independent investigators. Graduates will be well-prepared for careers in academia and translational research, with extensive knowledge of sophisticated scientific theories and rigorous epidemiologic research methods.The Epi Doctoral Program focuses on urban health, health disparities and community involvement in health promotion, and offers concentrations in epidemiology, environmental health, and biostatistics. Students work closely with faculty mentors in such research areas as aging, cardiovascular disease, Sickle Cell disease, epigenetics, pediatric obesity, cancer survivorship, and global health, to identify major public health problems and promote evidence-based public health interventions and policies to prevent disease and improve quality of life. Health Systems and Policy (HSP) Doctoral Program The Health Systems and Policy doctoral program is designed for those who want to teach and conduct research utilizing evidence-based best practices and rigorous scientific theories and methods to understand and improve the structure, process, and outcomes of health systems. The program emphasizes attention to policy-related opportunities within urban health systems, as well as the transformative nature of healthcare data and evidence; and the need to address health systems issues within the context of improving population health. Graduates of the program will be prepared to conduct innovative, interdisciplinary and translational research in a variety of academic, government, non-profit, and health systems settings. Social and Behavioral Sciences(SBS) Doctoral Program The Social and Behavioral Sciences doctoral program is based on the principle that health and health behavior are influenced by multiple psychological, behavioral, social, and cultural factors. It is targeted for master's prepared students who desire advanced training in the social and behavioral theories and methods used in public health. As a metropolitan research university, we are especially committed to health equity and social justice among urban populations. This program is designed for those who intend to teach and conduct original research utilizing rigorous scientific theories and methods to understand and influence the social and behavioral determinants of population health risk factors and outcomes. Graduates of the program are prepared to conduct innovative, interdisciplinary, and translational research in community settings with an emphasis on vulnerable populations, and to design, implement, administer, and evaluate public health interventions and policies. The program emphasizes urban health and health disparity issues in Tennessee and the Mid-South region. POPULATION HEALTH CERTIFICATE SPH is pleased to offer a new graduate certificate in population health, which can be earned in two semesters. Course credit may be applied to the MPH degree. HEALTH CARE INTERPRETER COURSE The Health Care Interpreter Course, accredited by the International Medical Interpreter Association, is a specialized educational program offered several times during the year with course curriculum and materials developed by Kaiser Permanente in partnership with Hablamos Juntos. Programs MHA Admissions Apply Now Competencies Day One Internship Handbook Mission, Vision and Values Newsletter Program Requirements Admissions Apply Now Competencies Mission, Vision and Values Program Requirements MPH Admissions Apply Now Competencies Handbook Practicum Program Requirements Epi PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook HSP PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook SBS PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook Population Health Certificate Interpreter Course Interpreter Course Information Interpreter Course Requirements Interpreter Course Registration &amp; Payment Apply Now Contact Us Support SPH Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .