#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/records/withdraw.php
Withdrawing from the University - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Home Registrar Students Withdrawing from the University Withdrawing from UofM When you decide to withdraw completely from the University, your first step should be to drop all of your courses online on or before the "Last Day to Drop a Class" for the term/part(s)-of-term. Select the appropriate Dates &amp; Deadlines calendar to find this date. Do not make the mistake of thinking that you are withdrawing by simply not attending your classes. You must drop the classes you have enrolled in; otherwise, you may receive F grades and, possibly, owe the University money. Advising Usually, you do not have to talk to your advisor: simply go online and drop all of your courses. However, if you are a Scholarship Athlete, you must have permission from the Center for Athletic Academic Services to withdraw. Considerations Money - Satisfy any outstanding financial obligations you may have to the University. UofM will not release your transcript to another university if you still owe money here. So, make sure that you have paid all fines and fees that are due. If you have any question as to whether you owe the University any money, or why you do, contact the Bursar . Contracts - If you have you signed a contract with either Residence Life or the Child Development Center, be aware that you must contact the appropriate office about cancelling it. Please review your contract and contact Residence Life or the Child Development Center if you have questions. Equipment - Return any equipment--library books, instruments, uniforms, etc.--that belongs to the University. Again, if you fail to do so, a hold may be placed on your transcript. Financial Aid - Withdrawing can affect your eligibility for financial aid and your repayment schedule as well. If you are receiving financial aid, contact Student Financial Aid for clarification as to how withdrawal will affect your aid and repayment schedule. Lottery Scholarship - Once you receive a Lottery Scholarship, you must continue taking classes in both the Fall and Spring semesters of each academic year in order to maintain your eligibility. (You do not have to attend Summer terms to maintain a Lottery Scholarship.) If you do not maintain this continuous enrollment, you may lose your Lottery Scholarship. Contact the Scholarship Office for more information. Veterans Benefits - Withdrawing can affect your future eligibility for veterans benefits. If you are attending school through a VA program, contact the University's Veterans Educational Benefits &amp; Certification Office for clarification as to how your benefits will be affected. Possible Refunds You may be entitled to a partial refund of your enrollment fees, depending on when you withdraw. Visit the Bursar's website to determine the term's drop/withdrawal refund deadlines. Withdrawing After the Drop/Withdrawal Deadline It is possible to withdraw from a term after the drop deadline has passed; however, you must have approval to do so. Approval is granted only in those instances in which "serious and unforeseen circumstances" prevented you from completing that term's classes. Here is the approval required, depending on your circumstances: Late Withdrawal [Example: You are currently taking Fall Full Term classes. You missed the "Last Day to Drop" (October DD, YYYY) and are trying to withdraw in November.] Undergraduate - Apply to the Dean of the College of your major, or to the Academic Counseling Center if you have not declared a major. Graduate - Apply to the Director of Graduate Studies for your College. If you are enrolled as non-degree seeking, apply to the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Studies. Retroactive Withdrawal from the Term Most Recently Ended [Example: Spring 20YY has ended (finals are over) but you want to withdraw from it.] Undergraduate - Apply to the Dean of the College of your major, or to the Academic Counseling Center if you have not declared a major. Graduate - Apply to the Director of Graduate Studies for your College. If you are enrolled as non-degree seeking, apply to the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Studies. Retroactive Withdrawal from a Term Prior to the Fall or Spring Term Most Recently Ended [Example: Fall 20YY has ended and you want to withdraw from the previous Spring.] Undergraduate - Apply to the Vice Provost for Academic Innovation &amp; Support Services. Graduate - Apply to the Director of Graduate Studies for your College. If you are enrolled as non-degree seeking, apply to the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Studies. Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .