#http://www.memphis.edu/ccfa/news/
CCFA News - CCFA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Communication and Fine Arts About Programs News Events Alumni Donors Resources news Voices Fall 2015 Winter 2015 Archives In the News Home CCFA News CCFA News BFA Art Exhibition showcases student talent The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art is pleased to present FOOD, a BFA thesis exhibition featuring works by nine graduating seniors of The University of Memphis Department of Art, Nov. 13-20, 2015. An opening reception will be held Friday, Nov. 13 from 5-­8 p.m. in the galleries. &gt;&gt;more department of art hosts folk art symposium The University of Memphis Department of Art will host a symposium Saturday, Nov. 7 from 9 to noon in room 250 of the Art and Communication Building, 3715 Central Ave. &gt;&gt;more Two uofm exhibitions celebrate contemporary folk art The exhibitions "The True Gospel Preached Here: Photographs by Bruce West" and "Memphis Collects Contemporary Folk Art" at The Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art at the University of Memphis will be on display until Nov. 6. &gt;&gt; more uofm Student, America's got talent semifinalist to perform in blue tom production The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music's Blue TOM records, the University of Memphis' student-run label, is presenting their annual Fall music festival, This Is Memphis, Oct. 11, 2015 at 7:00 p.m. at the Levitt Shell, 1928 Poplar Ave. Free to the public, the concert will feature just a few of the talented artists that attend the university, including Drew Erwin, Ben Callicott, Mary Owens and the Bluff City Soul Collective. &gt;&gt;more CALL FOR NOMINATIONS FOR PENNINGTON AWARD The University of Memphis Department Of Journalism invites current students, faculty and alumni to nominate a faculty member for the D. Mike Pennington Award for Outstanding Mentoring. The inaugural presentation of the award will be made at the Journalism Alumni Awards Banquet, 7 p.m., Wednesday, Oct. 14, at the University of Memphis Holiday Inn. &gt;&gt;more The Accumulation of Droplets Mural by Cedar Lorca Nordbye, Department of Art professor, to be unveiled Fogelman College of Business and Economics Classroom Building, University of Memphis, 3665 Central Ave. Friday, Sept. 4, 2015, 4-7 p.m. &gt;&gt; more DISTINGUISHED PROFESSIONALS ADDED TO CCFA FACULTY Two departments in the College of Communication and Fine Arts at the University of Memphis have officially named two distinguished members to their faculty, Tom Shadyac, successful Hollywood director, and Kevin Sharp, director of Dixon Gallery and Gardens. &gt;&gt; more Wink Martindale (BS '57) Distinguished Alumnus for Lifetime Achievement Radio/Television Host/Producer news Voices Fall 2015 Winter 2015 Archives In the News Apply Now Explore your creativity in CCFA. Contact Us Dean's office contact information Read Voices Online edition of CCFA's magazine Donate Now Support students and the arts with your donation Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .