#http://www.memphis.edu/rsp/vice_president/umrfpolicy_proceduremanual_draft2.pdf
UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION ( RESEARCH FOUNDATION ) POLICY & PROCEDURE MANUAL JUNE 2013 308 ADMINISTRATION BUILDING MEMPHIS, TN 38152 (901) 678 - 2533 THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 2 | Page TABLE OF CONTENTS I. The University of Memphis Research Foundation Page A. Intro 4 B. Important Information . 6 C. Board of Directors, Officers, and Staff 7 II. Sponsored Programs Administration Procedures A. Introduction .8 B. P roject P ..8 a. b. C. Agreement/Contract Negotiations .......................................................9 D. Advance Accounts 10 E. 10 a. b. 10 i. ii. iii. c. No - d. THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 3 | Page i. ii. .. 12 F. G. 1 3 a. b. H. a. 3 b. 4 I. Project Close - 4 J. 4 K. 5 L. ...1 5 APPENDICES Appendix A Research Foundation Charter Appendix B Research Foundation Bylaws Appendix C Researc h Foundation IRS Certificate of Exemption 6/3/2013 THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 4 | Page I. THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOU NDATION BACKGROUND REFERENCES T ennessee Nonprofit Corporation Act § 48 - 52 - 102 Research Foundation Articles of Incorporation Research Foundation By - Laws A. Introduction The University of Memphis Research Foundation ( Research Foundation ), a public benefit company was established on June 16, 2006 . The Research Foundation was formed to promote the objectives of The University of Memphis ( University) by providing higher education, conducting research, providing public service, and assisting in economic development in Tennessee. In furtherance of t hese objectives, the Research Foundation will facilitate acquisition of sponsored research fun ds from public and private sources, solicit donations to support activities of the Research Foundation, pursue appropriate legal protection for proprietary technologies developed through University research, hold and manage intellectual property assets on behalf of the University, and promote commercialization of research products and transfer of University technologies to appropriate partners for their further development and commercialization. In accordance with the Research Foundation's charter, the Re search Foundation is authorized to perform similar activities in support of other institutions within the Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) System. The Research Foundation is organized exclusively for charitable, scientific, literary and educational purpose s, including for such purposes, the making of distributions to organizations that qualify as exempt organizations under Section 501(c)(3) of the Code, as amended, or corresponding section of any future federal tax code; and, to the extent consistent with t he provisions herein, to do any and all things allowable under the Tennessee Nonprofit Corporation Act. The corporation is organized to operate for the benefit of the University of Memphis, which THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 5 | Page is owned and operated by a governmental unit, as an or ganization described in Sections 170(b)(1)(A)(iv) and 509(a)(1) of the Code, but only to the extent that such functions and purposes are exclusively for charitable, scientific, literary and educational purposes. Specifically, the corporation is organize d to benefit the University of Memphis, a public institution of higher education, for the following purposes: a) developing and administering sponsored research and other projects conducted by the faculty and staff of the University of Memphis; b) coordin ating a sponsored research program for the University of Memphis; c) encouraging, promoting, and aiding in the fulfillment of the educational, service and research functions of the University of Memphis; and d) using and applying the whole or any part of the income and principal received exclusively for charitable, educational, and scholarly purposes; and e) encouraging, promoting and aiding the transfer of technologies generated in the course of research conducted by University of Memphis faculty, sta ff and students. The Research Foundation's policies and procedures must be followed to maintain the highest integrity and to ensure conformance with the Research Foundation's Charter and Bylaws. I nternal R evenue S ervice (IRS) Status On October 23 , 2006, t he Internal Revenue Service issued a letter of determination declaring the Research Foundation a Public Charity exempt from federal income tax under section 501( c) of the Internal Revenue Code as an organization described in section 501(c)(3). Fiscal Yea r Period The Research Foundation's fiscal year is July 1 through June 30. Audit Requirements The Research Foundation is required to prepare fiscal - year financial statements annually. These statements, as well as all fiscal aspects of the Research Foundation, must be audited annually by an independent certified public accounting firm and at such other times as directed by the Board of Directors. The audit must be conducted in accordance with genera lly accepted auditing standards and the Government Auditing Standards (20 11 ), . The audited financial statements, as well as IRS Form 990, Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax, and all other accounting records will be on file in the Research Founda tion Office. THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 6 | Page B. Important Information FEIN Number 20 - 5400381 (Federal Employer Identification No.) DUNS number 969818678 Physical Address University of Memphis Research Foundation 308 Administration Building Memphis, TN 38152 Mailing Address University of Memphis Research Foundation 308 Administration Building Memphis, TN 38152 Telephone Number 901/678 - 2590 Facsimile Number 901/678 - 2199 THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 7 | Page C. B oard of Directors, Officers and Staff The Research Foundation is currently managed by a board comprised of 13 directors. Seven directors are members of the board by virtue of their responsibilities at the university and six remaining directors elected tri ennially are considered At - Large Directors and are selected from individuals with expertise in banking, business, technology, research, law or other fields relevant to the business of the Research Foundation. At least one (1) member of the At - Large Directors is an alumnus of The University of Memphis. The Officers of the Board of the Directors of the Research Foundation consists of a Chair, Vice Chair, Secretary / Treasurer and the Executive Director of the Research Foundation. The Executive Director of the Research Foundation is appointed by the Chair. The Board of Directors in its discretion appoint s or employ s such additional Officers as may be necessary to conduct the business of the Research Foundation. THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 8 | Page II. Sponsored Programs Administration Procedures REFERENCES : Policies & Procedures Related to Sponsored Pro grams ocedures.php A. Introduction The Research Foundation may solicit, accept, administer and disburse gifts, grants and bequests of property from various sources and enter in contracts to support research, teaching and service functions by the faculty and staff of the University. Advantages/benefits of administer ing sponsored programs through the Research Foundation include : The p otential to accept contract terms that the University is prohibited by state law to accept. The r eturn of residuals to the Principal Investigator . The a ccommodation of certain sponsor requirement s of a 501(c)3 entity for the receipt of funds. Appropriate classification of funding is important to institutions; it determines how to account for the funds, recover costs, monitor activities, and report on the use of the funds to internal and external constituents. External funding is generally classified into two categories: non - exchange transactions or exchange transactions. With non - exchange transactions, the donor neither receive s nor expects to receive anything of material value in return for the contribution. B. Project Proposal Process Research Foundation proposal process follow s U niversity proposal polic ies and procedures ; as Similarly to the University, there are specific documents (e.g. proposal summary form, budget and scope of work ) that are required at the inception of the process. Upon receipt of the required proposal documents, a proposal number is assigned and a file i s established. a. P rincipal I nvestigator Eligibility University policy requires that all principal investigator s or co - investigator s have a r egular appointment status , serving as faculty or staff. The Investigator Eligibility Policy can be found at : THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 9 | Page If authorized by the sponsoring agency, certain exceptions to the above policy may be made with the appr oval of the chair/director, dean, and the Vice Pr ovost for Research. b. Proposal Submission All applicable proposals should be submitted to the Research Foundation for review and approval prior to submission to the prospective sponsor . University polic ies a nd procedures require proposals to be submitted at least ten (10) working days prior to the sponsor dea dline. The Research Foundation will determine if the proposal complies with University policies and procedures and pr ospective sponsor guidelines . This includes adherence to University policies and procedures pertaining to the use of human subjects, animal subjects, bio hazardous materials and research in recombinant DNA molecules. C. Agreement/Contract Negotiations The Research Foundation requires a written agreement with mutually acceptable terms, signed by authorized representatives of both parties. The o ffice contract coordinator will typically initiate and negotiate the agreements on behalf of the R esearch Foundation. All Research Foundation ag reements include the following clause that states the relationship between the R esearch Foundation and the University : R esearch Foundation and the University have entered into an agreement wherein University performs research and service projects under agreements executed by R esearch Foundation with outside sponsors, and R esearch Foundation intel lectual property rights created under said agreements with outside sponsors. The most common award terms to which the Research Foundation will take exception, and try to negotiate changes, are as follows: Agreement assigned to wrong party (i.e. to the PI) Title (ownership) to intellectual and/or tangible property to be retained by the sponsoring agency Unreasonable reporting requirements Unacceptable payment terms Payments in foreign curren cy Adherence to rules/laws which conflict with certain laws of Tennessee Indemnification or warranties THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 10 | Page Issues with export controls It is the combined responsibility of the Research Foundation staff and the principal investigator to ensure the awa rd document does not contain terms and special conditions with which the Research Foundation or principal investigator cannot comply. A uthorized signatories on Research Foundation agreements are the University President in her/his capacity as the Chair of the Board of Directors or the Research Foundation Executive Director. D. Advanc e Accounts Research work should not begin before a contract is in place, however, should the award negotiations proc ess be protracted, the Executive Director of the Research Foundation or his/her designee may authorize work and spending to begin prior to the award document being fully executed. The appropriate sponsor official must be able to assure the receipt and acceptance of the award document and provide the effective dates of the award. This procedure will be used only when the lack of authorization for expenditures would create a serious delay or hardship for the project. Normally, advance account budget and expenditures will be limited to those absol utely necessary for project progression . E. Post Award Proce ss At the completion of the negotiations (as required) and u pon receipt and acceptance of an award agreement and/or document f rom the Sponsor, the Research Foundation through the Office of Research Support Services, will transmit the executed award and related budget to Grants and Contracts Accounting. Should the principal investigator receive either the executed award agreement and/or docum ent or payment, he/she should forward it to the Research Foundation. a. Job (Project) and Fund/Index Code Creation Upon execution of the awar d agreement , a job (project) is established in the Research account (number) structure is assigned to the project by the Office of Grants and Contracts Accounting , upon receipt of the transmittal : Fund Code Organization Code Program Code Index Number b. Project Budgets and Costs (Expenditures) THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 11 | Page Similarly to U niversity sponsored projects, all fiscal activities on R esearch F oundation sponsored projects must comply with University policies and procedures; as well as, sponsor terms and conditions as noted in the sponsored agreement . i. Direct Cost All costs should be allowable, allocable, reasonable and treated consistently for that specific sponsored project in accordance with the approved budget. ii. Facilities and Administrative ( F&A ) Cost The Research Foundation's F&A cost policy follows the University F&A cost policy. Any exception to this policy must have the written approval of the Executive Director of the Research Foundation or his/her designee. Please refer to the following address for current (F&A ) cost rates: iii. Cost Share Commitments The Research Foundation follows University policy on making cost sharing commitments. Cost sharing commitments must be adequately documented and should only be made when required by the sponsor or by the competitive nature of the award. Even under these circumstances, commitments to cost share should only be made to the extent necessary to meet specific requirements of the sponsored project. Guidelines are set forth at: The principal investigator is responsible for all expenditures charged to a Research Foundation account. Any budget/cost overruns are the responsibility of the principal inves tigator and/or the respective University department and college . Periodic review of the project account should be made by the p rincipal investigator or their designee, the Office of Grants Accounting and the Research Foundation. As expenditures are incurred and posted to the account, the University submits period ic project invoices to the Research Foundation. Upon receipt of a project invoice by the Research Foundation, the expenditures on the invoice are reconciled to the project fund/index data in . The invoice is then entered into the Research Foundation s financial system, as a payable. A payment to the THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 12 | Page University is made each quarter based on the invoices/payables recorded during that period. c. No - Cos t Extensions If additional time beyond the established expiration date will be required to assure adequate completion of the project within the funded budget, a no - cost time extension may be requested from the S ponsor by the p rincipal i nvestigator . Such a request should be made at least forty - five (45) days prior to the expiration date. The request may include a brief summary of progress, funds remaining, and plans to complete the project. The need for an extension of time should be well justified. Usua lly, the fact that funds may remain at the expiration date is not, in itself, sufficient justification for an extension. d. Reporting Requirements i. Technical Reports The principal investigator will be responsible for the preparation and submission of all required technical reports. The technical reporting requirements are set forth in the award document and/or handbooks and guidelines published by the sponsor . The principal investigator should apprise the sponsor anytime the project timelines cannot be m et. ii. Financial/Accounting Reports The Research Foundation will be responsible for maintaining the official fiscal records and for the preparation of all financial reports and billings to the sponsor. Financial reports shall also be provided on a quarterly basis or as requested, to the Board. F. Revenue Receipting Guidelines All income, including contributions, received by the Research Foundation shall be deposited by the Treasurer in a special account or accounts in such banks, trust companies, or other deposi taries as the Board may select. The receipt of physical checks are processed as follows: a. University of Memphis Research Foundation 308 Administration Building Memphis, Ten nessee 38152 b. Check payments received via mail are retrieved, opened and recorded in a written log sheet by the Administrative Associate. THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 13 | Page c. The check is then passed on to the designated person acting as Financial Manager of the Research Foundation, who records the payment in the financial system to the appropriate sponsored project and makes the deposit at the bank. d. Bank Reconciliation of Research Foundation funds should be performed monthly. G. Revenue Recognition and Net Asset Classification All Research Foundation project revenue will generally be classified as either contract/agreement (exchange transaction) revenue or gift/contribution (non - exchange) revenue with the following distinct characteristics: a. Contracts/ A greements: i. Generall y are consid ered to be Exchange Transactions whereby the sponsor is expecting to receive something of value in return for the funds awarded. ii. Revenue is recognized on the completed contract method . W ithout formal p roject cost accounting to determine percentage of comp letion, net contract revenue received prior to completion of the contract will be deferred until contract completion. iii. Net Assets are classified as U nrestricted . b. Gifts/Contributions: i. Generally are considered to be Non - Exchange Transactions whereby the sponsor neither receives nor expects to receive any thing of value in return for the contribution . ii. Revenue is recognized when awarded (considering collectability). iii. Net Assets are classified as R estricted. H. Purchasing /Disbursement Guidelines a. Purchasing Purchases of goods and services made with Research Foundation funds must adhere to sound, ethical business practices. No financial commitment may be made without specific written authority of the Research Foundation Board or the Executive Direc tor. Prudent judgment must be exercised by authorizing officials, when expen ding funds or determining if an expenditure is appropriate. Procurement of goods and services through the Research Foundation primarily follow s University procedures which can be found at: THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 14 | Page b. Disbursement s All disbursements from the Research Foundation shall require approval by the Board or the authorized designee and shall be properly re corded. All such records shall be subject to examination at any reasonable time, upon request, by any director. I. Project Close - Out Process a. A sixty ( 60 ) Day notice/memo will be sent to the principal investigator indicating project end/expiration date and requesting verification that project will be completed by the current end date and a no - cost extension to continue or complete the project will not be required. b. Confirmation that final sponsor payment has been received , shall be made. c. Reconciliation of the R esearch F oundation project balance to the budget balance available on the project fund/index in Banner , shall also be made. J. Residual Balance Transfer Procedures a. If the P rincipal I nvestigator (PI) does not have an existing R esearch Foundation Residual Balance Account, a R esearch Foundation Residual Balance PI Account, will need to be created. b. The existing negotiated F&A rate on the project will be charged on the residual balance. i. The charged rat e amount will be transferred to a R esearch Foundation Residual Rate Account. ii. The remaining amount will be transferred to the R esearch Foundation PI Residual Balance Account. c. The PI will need to submit a Scope of Work (describing the use of the residuals) and an internal budget to the R esearch Foundation up to the amount of the residual funds held by the R esearch Foundation in order to initiate the residual balance account setup and/or residual budget authorization. d. The Office of Research Support Services will transmit the i nternal budget and scope of work to Grants Accounting, upon review and approval by R esearch Foundation . e. residual budgets and projects. cts are identified and budgets are requested by the PI, upon R esearch Foundation accounts will be: i. Set up on a June 30th fiscal year basis ii. Reviewed for renewal at the start (July1) of each fiscal year period. f. Quarterly Residual Balance Reports will be provided to the R esearch Foundation Board and PI. THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS RESEARCH FOUNDATION 15 | Page K. Intellectual Property The Research Foundation's Intellectual Property policy follows the University policy. The Office of Technology Transfer shall negotiate and execute patent clauses and license agreements on behalf of the Research Foundation. University of Memphis Policy: Intellectual P roperty : . The Board of Directors has established an Investment Committee which is charged with the responsibility of reviewing all matters relating to the investment of Foundation asset s and making recommendations relating thereto from time to time to the Board of Directors. L. Investment Objectives be accomplished utilizing cash and cash equivalent s and fixed income instruments. The distribution to the University consistent with the requirements of the grants and contracts sponsored programs supported by Foundatio n funds. Asset Allocation Minimum Maximum Cash & Cash Equivalents 25% 100% Fixed Income 0% 75% The asset allocation ranges are intended as a guide representing the means of achieving capital preservation, income yield and cash flow requirements within acceptable levels of risk. All cash should be invested in income bearing instruments that possess stable pricing and reasonable liquidity. These should include checking and savings accounts, money market funds, certificates of deposit, US Treasury Bills, Notes and Bonds, US Corporate Securities, US Government Agency Securities and Commercial Paper rat ed A2/P2 or higher.