#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/sph.php
SPH Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning SPH Courses HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (HADM) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: HADM 7705–7715. Special Topics in Health Administration. (1-3). Intensive study of selected topics in health administration. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of graduate coordinator. HADM 7100 - Day 1 Sem I: Leadership Skills (1) The Day One Seminar is designed to equip students with experiences which will assist them in developing personal and professional leadership skills and will enable them to function effectively as early careerists and entry level professionals. Seminar I will focus on team-building, self-assessment, interviewing, communication, and technical writing. Throughout the seminar, students interact with faculty and community leaders to engage in a set of unique experiential learning opportunities. HADM 7101 - Day 1 Sem II: LeadershipSkills (1) The Day One Seminar is designed to equip students with experiences which will assist them in developing personal and professional leadership skills and will enable them to function effectively as early careerists and entry level professionals. Seminar II focuses on team-building, leading others, networking, business etiquette, and professional development. Throughout the seminar, students interact with faculty and community leaders to engage in a set of unique experiential learning opportunities. HADM 7102 - Health Care Law (3) Covers legal topics in relationship to their effect on operation of health care organizations; includes informed consent, research, confidentiality, professional negligence, regulation of health care provider conduct, and other relevant topics. HADM 7103 - Health Planning (3) Application of strategic planning and management concepts and techniques to health care sector; focus on strategy formation, strategic planning process, business planning and business development. HADM 7105 - Hlth Policy & Org Hlth Svs (3) This course explores the history and development of health policy and organization in the U.S., the forces affecting health policy, the impact of policy on health services delivery, and the most recent health care reform efforts. The course also covers the most basic knowledge, skills and attitudes required to manage health care organizations effectively. HADM 7106 - Health Services Resrch (3) (POLS 7-8601). Issues and techniques in data collection for design and implementation of independent research projects; logic of conducting health services research, measurement, ethical considerations, logic of sampling, various methods of collecting data for health services research, and writing research proposal; introduction to program evaluation and specific quantitative decision-making techniques; overview of epidemiological concepts and techniques. PREREQUISITE: POLS 6101 or permission of graduate coordinator. HADM 7107 - Health Care Ethics (3) Overview of ethical theory and its relationship to individual and community health; discusses critical issues, including beginning of life, end of life, medical research, access to care, and justice; emphasizes the critical decision making of individuals and how ethical thinking might inform public policy. HADM 7108 - Health Care Finance I (3) Introduction to accounting and financial management focusing on the health care industry; includes understanding financial reports, cost behavior and profit analysis, cost allocation, pricing and service decisions, managerial accounting, planning and budgeting, time value analysis, and financial risk and return. HADM 7109 - Hlth Admin Info Systems (3) Introduction to health information systems built around and upon the manager's role in the application in clinical settings of automated solutions to problems and concerns in today's health care service industry. PREREQUISITE: HADM 6101. HADM 7110 - Health Mgmt Leadership (3) Synthesis of theories, strategies, and systems of managing and leading health care organizations; emphasis on team leadership skills, utilization and outcome analysis, change strategies, and planning. HADM 7111 - Issues Hlth Serv Admn (3) Seminar for discussion of health problems for underserved populations in US health care system; issues include cultural diversity, social diversity, health care access, and health disparities among and between diverse populations; focuses on improving patient-provider relations and staff relations through understanding diversity. HADM 7113 - Sem Managed Hlth Care (3) Role of health service administrator in a managed care organization (MCO); theories of negotiation, incentives structure, pricing, information systems, legal aspects, and regulatory issues applied to practical management situations for the MCO administrator; issues in public/private managed care markets addressed in class lecture, discussion, and group/individual projects. HADM 7115 - Public Health Organizatn/Mgmt (3) This course synthesizes theories, strategies and systems of leading public health care organizations. This course is designed for graduate students in a variety of health disciplines. The course will cover leading theories of leadership and focus on application in public health organizations. Topics include but are not limited to systems thinking, leading change and innovation, community health leadership, and public health law and ethics. HADM 7116 - Adm Health Serv Orgs (3) Introduction to analysis of administrative practices in health services organizations: examines leadership roles, analyzes impact of professional roles on process within the organization, examines evolution of organizational design, appraises accountability relative to public trust. HADM 7117 - Physician Practice Mgmt (3) Examines environmental context, financial management, operations management, human resources management, planning and marketing, and strategic management within the variety of ambulatory settings. HADM 7120 - Independent Study (3) Independent investigation of research problems or directed readings in selected area of health administration. PREREQUISITE: Permission of graduate coordinator. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. HADM 7190 - Internship Hlth Admn I (1-6) Participation in a field experience program, including a written report critically describing the student's responsibilities. Field experience may result from a supervised internship in cooperating public and non-profit organizations or from an appropriate administrative experience if the student is employed in a public or non-profit organization. PREREQUISITE: Successful completion of a minimum of 26 hours in the Health Administration program and permission of graduate coordinator. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. HADM 7204 - Healthcare Qual & Outcms Mgmt (3) This course is designed to acquaint the student with quality management philosophies, approaches, and methodologies for improving health systems and processes. Students completing this course will be able to identify, analyze and create a basic quality/outcome research proposal. HADM 7206 - Managerial Epidemiology (3) Introduction to principles and tools of epidemiology, exploring distribution and determinants of disease, and examining ways to apply this knowledge to the management of health service organizations. HADM 7208 - Health Care Finance II (3) Continuation of tools and techniques for financial management in health care settings, blending theory and practice through lecture and case analysis to provide students an opportunity to apply theory presented in class to practical examples. PREREQUISITE: HADM 7108-8108 HADM 7209 - Quant Methods for Hlth Svcs (3) Covers use and capabilities of Excel, particularly in the functional ability to construct operational and financial models for healthcare organizations; encourages active "hands-on" participation of students in the learning process; all data sets relate specifically to health care: e.g.: DRG codes, lengths of stay, Medicare charges, ICD-9 codes, diagnoses, etc. HADM 7210 - Comp Expr/Hlth Care Mgmt (3) Capstone course for the MHA program, requiring students to draw from all previous learning in the program. Major focus is a small-team project to create a needs analysis; identify gaps in health care services; plan an intervention (service or facility); and determine how to create, finance, staff, and deliver the intervention. Preparation of a Certificate of Needs (CON) also required. PREREQUISITE: Minimum of 41 credit hours. HADM 7605 - Human Resources Admin (3) (POLS 7-8605). Policies, methods, and techniques utilized in public and health organizations; special attention is given to problems reflecting contemporary demands upon human resource systems, capacity to diagnose problems, select the most effective means of addressing them, and plan appropriate courses of action developed through case studies. HADM 7703 - Reading For Comps (3) Arranged on an individual basis for graduate students in health administration only. PREREQUISITE: Completion of degree requirements or in the last two semesters of program. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. HADM 7705 - Quality Tools in HC Mgmt (3) This course is designed to teach students the methodology and tools of Lean Six Sigma from development of a project charter to completion of the project. Students will lead a real-world project of moderate complexity through all of the phases of Six Sigma, complete a comprehensive exam, and defend the project to the instructor and a Master Black Belt. Upon successful completion, students will be certified Six Sigma Green Belts. HADM 7706 - Population Health Management (3) This course focuses on critical concepts in population health and population health management. Attention is given to both health care and public health dimensions of identifying, managing, and improving population health outcomes in an era of health care reform. Population-level determinants of health are addressed in detail, as are the rationale and tools for monitoring and improving health problems at a population level. Emphasis is given to specific models for population health management, as well as systemic innovations in health care and public health. PREREQUISITE: instructor approval HADM 7718 - Med Tech Purchasing/Sales (3) Describes changing health care market environment, provides knowledge and skills about purchasing behavior and selling strategies important in adoption of medical technologies and services surrounding their adoption; reviews purchasing behaviors of key stakeholders e.g., physicians, pharmacists, and materials managers in major health care institutions; covers appropriate approaches to selling medical technology products to health institutions. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the Graduate Coordinator. HADM 7996 - Thesis (1-6) The student must write and defend satisfactorily a thesis on a subject approved by the major professor.Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. HADM 8102 - Health Care Law (3) Covers legal topics in relationship to their effect on operation of health care organizations; includes informed consent, research, confidentiality, professional negligence, regulation of health care provider conduct, and other relevant topics. HADM 8103 - Health Planning (3) Application of strategic planning and management concepts and techniques to health care sector; focus on strategy formation, strategic planning process, business planning and business development. HADM 8105 - Govt Regul Hlth Ser (3) Explores development of health policy and regulation in the US, forces affecting health policy, and impact of regulation on health care delivery; regulatory issues and health care reform discussed and debated. HADM 8106 - Health Services Resrch (3) (POLS 7-8601). Issues and techniques in data collection for design and implementation of independent research projects; logic of conducting health services research, measurement, ethical considerations, logic of sampling, various methods of collecting data for health services research, and writing research proposal; introduction to program evaluation and specific quantitative decision-making techniques; overview of epidemiological concepts and techniques. PREREQUISITE: POLS 6101 or permission of graduate coordinator. HADM 8107 - Health Care Ethics (3) Overview of ethical theory and its relationship to individual and community health; discusses critical issues, including beginning of life, end of life, medical research, access to care, and justice; emphasizes the critical decision making of individuals and how ethical thinking might inform public policy. HADM 8108 - Health Care Finance I (3) Introduction to accounting and financial management focusing on the health care industry; includes understanding financial reports, cost behavior and profit analysis, cost allocation, pricing and service decisions, managerial accounting, planning and budgeting, time value analysis, and financial risk and return. HADM 8109 - Hlth Admin Info Systems (3) Introduction to health information systems built around and upon the manager's role in the application in clinical settings of automated solutions to problems and concerns in today's health care service industry. PREREQUISITE: HADM 6101. HADM 8113 - Sem Managed Hlth Care (3) Role of health service administrator in a managed care organization (MCO); theories of negotiation, incentives structure, pricing, information systems, legal aspects, and regulatory issues applied to practical management situations for the MCO administrator; issues in public/private managed care markets addressed in class lecture, discussion, and group/individual projects. HADM 8115 - Public Health Organizatn/Mgmt (3) This course synthesizes theories, strategies and systems of leading public health care organizations. This course is designed for graduate students in a variety of health disciplines. The course will cover leading theories of leadership and focus on application in public health organizations. Topics include but are not limited to systems thinking, leading change and innovation, community health leadership, and public health law and ethics. HADM 8116 - Adm Health Serv Orgs (3) Introduction to analysis of administrative practices in health services organizations: examines leadership roles, analyzes impact of professional roles on process within the organization, examines evolution of organizational design, appraises accountability relative to public trust. HADM 8117 - Ambulatory Pract Mgmt (3) Examines environmental context, financial management, operations management, human resources management, planning and marketing, and strategic management within the variety of ambulatory settings. HADM 8120 - Independent Study (3) Independent investigation of research problems or directed readings in selected area of health administration. PREREQUISITE: Permission of graduate coordinator. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. HADM 8204 - Quality/Outcome Mgmt Hlth Care (3) This course is designed to acquaint the student with quality management philosophies, approaches, and methodologies for improving health systems and processes. Students completing this course will be able to identify, analyze and create a basic quality/outcome research proposal. HADM 8208 - Health Care Finance II (3) Continuation of tools and techniques for financial management in health care settings, blending theory and practice through lecture and case analysis to provide students an opportunity to apply theory presented in class to practical examples. PREREQUISITE: HADM 7108-8108 HADM 8605 - Human Resources Admin (3) (POLS 7-8605). Policies, methods, and techniques utilized in public and health organizations; special attention is given to problems reflecting contemporary demands upon human resource systems, capacity to diagnose problems, select the most effective means of addressing them, and plan appropriate courses of action developed through case studies. HADM 8706 - Population Health Management (3) This course focuses on critical concepts in population health and population health management. Attention is given to both health care and public health dimensions of identifying, managing, and improving population health outcomes in an era of health care reform. Population-level determinants of health are addressed in detail, as are the rationale and tools for monitoring and improving health problems at a population level. Emphasis is given to specific models for population health management, as well as systemic innovations in health care and public health. PREREQUISITE: instructor approval HADM 8718 - Med Tech Purchasing/Sales (3) Describes changing health care market environment, provides knowledge and skills about purchasing behavior and selling strategies important in adoption of medical technologies and services surrounding their adoption; reviews purchasing behaviors of key stakeholders e.g., physicians, pharmacists, and materials managers in major health care institutions; covers appropriate approaches to selling medical technology products to health institutions. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the Graduate Coordinator. PUBLIC HEALTH (PUBH) PUBH 7014 - Public Health Communication (3) (COMM 7014-8014) Explores the communication processes and practices that can be used to promote positive change in health behaviors, including the rhetorical exigencies inherent in public health care communication, the various formats for disseminating medical information, and the specific audience needs that health care communication must address. PUBH 7104 - Large Data Sets/PUBH Research (3) This course addresses secondary data analysis of health quality and outcomes issues. Secondary data analysis using large, public data sets will be examined. Issues related to secondary analysis and drawing items from multiple data sets will be discussed. Analytical techniques such as adjustments for missing data, transformations of data, and risk adjusstment will be applied using public data sets. PUBH 7120 - Environmental Health I (3) Introduces complex and interlinked environmental issues facing public health professionals; presents concepts, principles, and applications of natural and social science disciplines forming the basis of environmental health; introduces environmental issues relevant to health problems; develops communication skills by discussing public health issues and environmental policies. PUBH 7122 - Environmental Health II (3) This course focuses on specific cases of environmental hazards and related health problems. It also focuses on the applied aspect of sources of environmental data, methods of environmental data collection, risk assessment and use of such data for policy development and risk management. PUBH 7124 - Environmental Toxicology (3) This course discusses basic principles governing the behavior and effects of toxic chemicals released into the environment; sources, distribution, and fate of toxic chemicals in the environment; chemicals and cancer and birth defects; government regulation of chemical hazards. Focus is on human health impacts of chemicals found in the workplace and general environment. PUBH 7125 - Environmental Health Microbiol (3) This course provides introduction to foodborne and waterborne microbial disease including sources and routes of transmission of microbes from the environment to humans; identification of common water and foodborne pathogens and methods for their detection and surveillance; safe preservation and intervention methods to reduce microbial loads in food and water; regulatory aspects of prevention of foodborne disease and how information from surveillance is used to improve public health policy and practice. PRE-REQUISITE: one college level course in both biology and chemistry. PUBH 7126 - Prin Exposure/Risk Assessmnt (3) Understanding of exposure and risk is a necessary application and of growing importance in environmental health studies. This course is designed to provide concepts, methods, models, statistics and theory necessary for the assessment of exposure to environmental agents and health risk from exposures. Topics to be covered include: the selection of study populations; identification and quantification of exposure pathways; the design of exposure assessment strategies; exposure measurement methods; risk assessment framework, modeling of health effects; and derivation of risk estimates. Specific examples of exposure and risk assessments will be analyzed and critiqued. PUBH 7128 - Envrnmnt Policy/DecisionMaking (3) The course will present regulatory and non-regulatory approaches to the management of toxic substances in the environment, with emphasis on the scientific/technical basis for toxic substances control. It will examine approaches at the international level, in the European Union, and at the federal and state levels in the U.S. Overviews of each approach will be provided with the majority of the course dedicated to examination of the use of risk-based and public health-based approaches to toxicant control in regulatory as well as non-regulatory contexts. Topics that will be integrated into this examination include risk communication, risk perception, risk-benefit and cost-benefit analysis, and environmental justice.PRE-REQUISITES: 7124-8124 and 7126-8126 PUBH 7129 - Envrnmntl Sampling & Analysis (3) This is a graduate level laboratory and lecture course on principles, equipment, instrumentation, methodologies, and strategies for measuring environmental chemical and biological contaminants. We will examine sampling techniques, analytical methods, quality assurance/quality control, and regulatory mandates applied to air, water and soil samples. It is designed for students in the environmental health sciences and other graduate students interested in occupational and ambient-environmental exposure assessments for regulatory compliance and risk estimation. PUBH 7130 - Social Determinants of Health (3) This course focuses on the systematic study of the economic and social conditions which determine health. It examines the social gradient in health and explores how social influences such as poverty, social capital, job security, neighborhood characteristics, social support, transportation, discrimination, and stress affect health and longevity. It also explores structural interventions in shaping social environments that are conducive to better health. PRE-REQUISITE: PUBH 7160/8160 OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR PUBH 7131 - Social/Behavioral Policy Devel (3) This course will introduce students to how theories and methods in the social and behavioral sciences are applied to the development and implementation of public policy aimed at health prevention and promotion. Several current primary and secondary prevention issues will be used as exemplars, including tobacco control, physical activity, injury control, and regulation of food supply. PUBH 7132 - Health Program Evaluation (3) This graduate seminar provides qualitative and quantitative perspectives on health program evaluation. The course examines various models, theories, methods, and processes in evaluating community and public health programs. It is a practice-oriented course and facilitates students developing applied skills in the field of health program evaluation. PUBH 7135 - Social Ntwrk Concepts in PUBH (3) This course introduces students to the concepts of social networks and social relationships and how these factors are associated with health. Students will be provided with an overview of the history of social network research, social network constructs and measurements, and their application in health research and interventions. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7150 AND PUBH 7160, OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR. PUBH 7140 - Epidemiology Chronic Disease (3) This course is designed to provide graduate students with knowledge on major chronic diseases and skill on applying various epidemiologic methods to design and conduct epidemiological studies on chronic diseases. The course covers selected topics in chronic disease with critical analysis of the current epidemiologic literature. PUBH 7141 - Epidemiologic Survey Method (3) This course provides students in Public Health with the basic elements in designing and performing survey research. The course describes the initial steps in formulating and focusing the research question and proceeds to the key steps in performing survey research, i.e., identifying the target population, obtaining an appropriate sample, designing the survey instrument and implementing it. PUBH 7150 - Biostatistical Methods I (3) Introduces elementary methods for presenting public health data in summary form and analyzing data; not a mathematics course and will not stress derivations of formulae; instead, emphasizes the application of statistical ideas and methods to the design and interpretation of public health studies. PUBH 7152 - Biostatistical Methods II (3) This course is the second course in Biometric statistics for public health research. It is intended for advanced students in public health who are interested in gaining expertise in advanced Biometric data analysis. You will be introduced to Biometric statistical modeling techniques commonly used in public health as well as analysis procedures using SPSS and SAS computer software. PUBH 7153 - Biostat. in Bioinformatics (3) This course is offered every other year to Master (7000 level) and Doctoral (8000 level) students. This course focuses on statistical methods in application to bioinformatics data and other large data sets with similar features. Students will be introduced to R programming, a commonly used programming language implemented in bioinformatics data analyses. This will be an applied course with focus on learning the methods, applying the methods, and programming in R. Prerequisite: PUBH 7150 (Biostatistical Methods I). PUBH 7155 - SPSS for Health Research (1) designed to introduce SPH students to programming and data structure topics they would be expected to know when using SPSS in their coursework or job. Please note that this is not a statistics course so statistical programming or statistical procedures will not be covered. All programming topics will be demonstrated using public health data sets. PUBH 7156 - SAS for Health Research (1) designed to introduce SPH students to programming topics they would be expected to know when using SAS in their coursework or job. SAS is a very complex, sophisticated application so we will concentrate on the simple basics. This is strictly an applied course with obvious emphasis on using SAS Information Delivery Software, mainly SAS/base. PUBH 7160 - Soc/Behav Science Principles (3) This graduate level course will focus on the contribution of social and behavioral sciences to the understanding of the distribution, etiology, and solution of public health problems. The theoretical underpinnings of the most relevant explanation, planning, change, and evaluation theories will be reviewd in depth and illustrated with examples of the application of these models to helath promotion and disease prevention with individuals, groups and communities. PUBH 7161 - Adv Psychosocial Thry Hlth (3) This course provides a multidisciplinary theoretical approach to the study of health and health behavior. Emphasis is on the use of psychosocial theories in health-related practice, policy-making, and research. Other theoretical perspectives, such as the ecological and biopsychosocial models, are addressed in order to integrate these theoretical perspectives. PUBH 7165 - PUBH Approaches to HIV/AIDS (3) This course introduces students to critical issues in HIV/AIDS prevention in diverse community settings using an ecological perspective to understand how multiple levels of influence contribute to HIV/AIDS disparities. Social determinants of HIV/AIDS/STI transmission will be addressed. The course will integrate various approaches to eliminating HIV/AIDS disparities including community-based participatory research, faith-based initiatives, and community-based methods. PUBH 7170 - Epidemiology in PUBH (3) Provides foundation needed to interpret, use, and research epidemiological data; focuses on methodological aspects of epidemiology as it applies to investigation of public health problems and guidance of public health planning and policies. PUBH 7172 - Epidemiology PUBH II (3) This course is designed for epidemiology majors and other students requiring a more thorough knowledge of the concepts and methods used in epidemiological research. This course stresses analytical study designs and etiologic research. Topics include exposure-disease associations, threats to internal validity and their control, and valid interpretation of study results, including concepts of association, causality, and effect modification. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7150 AND PUBH 7170, OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR PUBH 7174 - Epidemiology PUBH III (3) This course is designed for doctoral and advanced master's degree students. The course focuses on the nature of causality in biological systems and the methods by which it may be determined. The course also focuses on extracting, organizing and interpreting various evidence to support public health and medical practices. Both observational and experimental study designs are considered. Landmark studies from the epidemiologic literature will be extensively used to illustrate these issues. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7150, PUBH 7170, AND PUBH 7172, OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR. PUBH 7175 - Lab Tech in Molecular Epi (3) 7000/8000 level; Lecture/Lab Hours: 3 contact hours (2-5 pm)/week This course covers cross-disciplinary approaches incorporating genomics and proteomics- based molecular laboratory techniques/methods currently used in epidemiology to identify and detect risk factors for diseases and to facilitate intervention. In addition to lectures, the course includes a series of laboratory modules to provide students with hands-on experience in different laboratory methods used in epidemiologic studies, investigation in microbial infectious diseases, and cancer diagnostics and treatments. Prerequisite: at least one college level course in both biology and chemistry. PUBH 7180 - Foundations of PUBH (3) Provides foundation for critical analysis of current public health issues, facilitating discussion of contemporary issues and challenges of public health policy and practice; key topics include balancing individual and societal rights; public health ethics; health disparities; cultural competence, socio-ecologic approaches to promote health; public health concerns in urban communities; and current public health practice. PUBH 7190 - Adv SAS for PUBH Prof 1 (3) This class introduces students to advanced SAS programming statements and techniques using the SAS system software. PREREQUISITES: PUBH 7150 or equivalent; students outside the School of Public Health must obtain permission from the instructor. PUBH 7191 - Adv SAS for PUBH Prof II (3) This class introduces students to advanced SAS programming language statements and methods specifically for data management and reporting. Students will learn methods and techniques to identify data errors, use methods for data entry, maintain analytical data sets and summarize clinical/medical encounter data. This class is a continuation of PUBH 7190-8190. PREREQUISITES: PUBH 7150 or equivalent; PUBH 7190-8190; students outside the School of Public Health must obtain permission from the instructor. PUBH 7200 - Research Meth in Soc Beh Sci (3) This course provides a comprehensive introduction to step-by-step research process, including research design, data collection, interpretation, and guidelines for writing and presenting results in social and behavioral sciences. It covers a range of research methods, including observational techniques, survey research, focus groups, and in-depth interviews. Emphasis is placed on understanding the strengths, weaknesses, and underlying logic of different procedures for obtaining empirical evidence for rigorous population health research. PUBH 7305 - Quant Meth Review Rsch (3) (same as PSYC 7305-8305). This course focuses on quantitative strategies for reviewing research findings in the social sciences. These quantitative review techniques (often referred to as ?meta-analysis?) can help investigators summarize and resolve conflicts in past research. The course should be particularly useful to graduate students who are planning to conduct literature review as part of a research project, master?s thesis, or doctoral dissertation. PRE-REQUISITES: Students enrolled in this course are expected to have completed PSYC 7302/8302 or an equivalent graduate-level statistics course, and to have a basic understanding of the analysis of variance and multiple regression. PUBH 7306 - Linear Struct Modeling (3) (PSYC 7306-8306). The purpose of this course is to provide students with an introduction to structural equation modeling (SEM). An emphasis will be placed on helping students use/apply SEM methodology to answer research questions in their areas of interest. After completing this course, students should be able to (1) conduct structural equation analyses using SAS, AMOS, and Mplus, (2) communicate results of structural equation analyses in both written and verbal form, (3) evaluate strengths and limitations of studies employing SEM techniques, and (4) provide consultation to colleagues on SEM related issues. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7152 OR EQUIVALENT. PUBH 7307 - App Struct Equ Modeling in PH (3) This course will provide knowledge about the fundamentals of structural equation modeling, and its practical applications in public health. It will provide details of structural equation modeling, from statistical concepts to how to perform various types of structural equation analyses. Topics will include covariance structures, path diagrams, path analysis, model identification, model testing with emphasis on confirmatory factor analysis and invariance testing. Statistical software recommended for this course are SAS and SPSS AMOS. PREREQUISITE: PUBH 7152-8152 PUBH 7308 - Appl Multivariate Stat (3) (PSYC 7308-8308). Covers multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) with independent designs and extensions to repeated measures and ANOVA. Goals include review of conceptual bases, learning SPSS and SAS procedures, learning analysis of simple and complex designs, and learning special post-hoc procedures. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7152/8152 OR EQUIVALENT. PUBH 7309 - Appl Surv Analys in Pub Hlth (3) This course will cover the statistical concepts and techniques that are useful in the field of public health for the analysis of survival data or time to event data. The course will examine the features unique to survival data which distinguishes these data from other more familiar types of data. Topics include survival functions, hazard rates, types of censoring and truncation. Methods will include life tables, Kaplan-Meier plots, log-rank tests, Cox regression models, and Inference for parametric regression models. Statistical software recommended for this course are SAS and SPSS. PREREQUISITE: PUBH 7150 or instructors permission. PUBH 7310 - Mixed Model Regression Analys (3) Instruction in the use of mixed-model regression with a focus on design and ananlysis of group-randomized trials; attention also given to analysis of data from surveys based on cluster sampling, longitudinal studies, and studies involving matching. Same as PSYC 7310-8310. PUBH 7311 - Appl Categorical Data Analys (3) Instruction includes tabular, logistic, and Poisson and Cox regression, as well as interpretation of SAS output. For advanced students in psychology, education, and public health pusuing a career in research. Same as PSYC 7311-8311. PUBH 7333 - Addictive Behaviors (3) This course provides public health students with an introduction to the historical, clinical, epidemiological, and public policy issues related to addictive behaviors, including alcohol, tobacco, illicit drugs, and gambling. Students will be exposed to a variety of methodological approaches used by social and behavioral scientists to study addictive behaviors, including ethnography, surveys, geographical information systems, and clinical trials. PUBH 7334 - Comm Based Part Resrch Mthds (3) This course familiarizes students with key historical underpinnings of community based participatory research (CBPR), principles of CBPR practice, and methodological considerations in building community partnerships; community assessment; issue analysis; research planning; data gathering; and data sharing. The course will also address cultural competence; working with diverse populations; ethical considerations; as well as funding and Institutional Review Board issues. PUBH 7335 - Struct/Environ Iss/Urban Comm (3) This course focuses on concepts of risk and burden of disease in urban communities. It examines contemporary issues and challenges of the social, cultural, built, and physical environments of urban communities. Key topics include public health and urban health; roots of health inequality; risk and burden of disearse; stress, socio-economic and structural influences on health; and community-based approaches (CBPR) to address public health concerns in urban communities. PUBH 7336 - Women's Health (3) This course examines topics in women's health in the United States; the programs, services, and policies that affect women's health; and methodological issues in research about women's health. the epidemiology, measurement and interpretation of these factors, and how these factors can be translated into interventions, programs, and policy, will be of major interest. PUBH 7337 - Eating Behavior,Nutr, & Family (3) This graduate course examines family-based influences on feeding behavior and nutrition from a developmental perspective. Topics covered include how parent and family contextual factors affect the develoopment of eating behaviors across infancy, childhood and adolescence; the relation of parenting practices, eating attitudes, and parent characteristcs to feeding problems in special populations; and family influences on the development of disordered eating in children and adolescents. PUBH 7338 - Critical Issues in Global Hlth (3) This course focuses on critical issues in global health emphasizing the multidisciplinary approach to understanding global health problems as they occur within and across borders. Concepts include the interplay between global stressors such as population, urbanization, economics, environment, and war; and their effects on the spread of infectious and chronic diseases, nutrition, and environmental health. PUBH 7339 - Transl Rsrch Meth Pop Hlth (3) This course covers methods to plan, design and evaluate the potential translatability and public health impact of prevention interventions. Methodological issues to be considered include reach, representativeness, adoption, implementation, adaptation, impact, scalability, and sustainability of interventions. Measurement and metrics to assess these elements and evaluate their impact will be included. PUBH 7340 - Behavioral Intervention Develp (3) This course provides training in the development of theory-based behavioral interventions that are relevant to public health research and practice. Focuses on community and population level strategies and methods. PREREQUISITE: PUBH 7160-8160 or permission of instructor. PUBH 7341 - Physical Activity/Public Hlth (3) This course is an overview of physical activity programming and interventions within the public health framework. Students will study issues germane to physical activity and public health; acquire knowledge of current research, best practices, guidelines and recommendations for physical activity; and develop skills integral to the design, implementation, and evaluation of public health programs that are intended to promote physical activity in specific populations. PUBH 7342 - Epidemiology Min/Ethnic Pop (3) This course provides an evidence-based approach to the study of the epidemiology and heatlh disparities of racial and ethnic groups in the U.S. Emphasis is placed on historical events and immigration policies that have contributed to the prominent size of these populations, identification of data sources to describe this demographic imperative and health status, and on socio-political, cultural, and religious influences that inform public policy on health disparities. PUBH 7343 - Tobacco Use:Cause,Conseq,Ctrl (3) This course utilizes a multi-level approach to public health by providing a comprehensive overview of the health effects, history, marketing, politics, and control of tobacco use, combining medical, psychsocial, epidemiological and economic perspectives to give students a framework for understanding tobacco addiction and its prevention and treatment. PUBH 7345 - Health Literacy (3) (Same as COMM 7345-8345) This course will introduce students to the issues of health literacy from a public health perpective. We will explore the impact of health literacy on access to care, vulnerable populations, management of chronic illness, mental health, healthcare costs, and several other areas. PUBH 7346 - Public Mental Health (3) This course provides an overview of mental health issues from a public health perspective. Topics include differentiating mental health from mental illness, socio-economic disparities in mental illness, community-based services for the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of prevalent mental illnesses, and major mental heatlh policy issues in the United States. PUBH 7347 - Qualitative Mtds Hlth Research (3) This course provides an overview of qualitative research methods commonly used in health related research, including the basic skills needed for data collection and analysis and an understanding of philosophical and epistemological roots. Students will learn to develop and critique a qualitative research proposal in terms of design, technique, analysis and interpretation. PUBH 7348 - Hlth Equity,Cult Comp,Soc Just (3) This course provides a foundation for needs assessment of current public health issues to promote heatlh equity. Key topics include health disparities; cultural competence in community intervention development; cultural approaches to health, illness, and health-seeking behavior; and public health challenges in divers communities in achieving health equity and promoting social justice. PUBH 7400 - Special Problems (3) Independent investigation of a research problem or directed readings, in a selected area of public health chosen in consultation with the instructor. Only six hours of credit may be applied to a degree. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credits. PUBH 7442 - Cancer Epidemiology (3) The course concentrates on distribution and trends of incidence, mortality and survival of major cancer types. It also discusses in depth current theories of cancer etiology, including radiation, tobacco, alcohol, drugs, occupation and other environmental, biologic and behavioral factors. Special issues of epidemiological research in cancer, such as study design, issues related to abstracting information from medical and other records and retrospective assessment of exposures will also be emphasized. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7150 AND PUBH 7170, OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR. PUBH 7443 - Infectious Disease Epidemiolgy (3) This course is designed to introduce students to the basic concepts in infectious disease epidemiology. Topics include history and major concepts of infectious disease epidemiology, investigating new outbreaks, emerging infectious disease and bioterrorism. Measures for controlling infectious disease, such as surveillance, vaccination, and vector control will be taught. Major infectious diseases will be discussed in some detail, including HIV/AIDS, TB, Malaria, and Flu. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7150 AND PUBH 7170, OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR. PUBH 7444 - PUBH Surveillance Fundamentals (3) This course covers topics related to the systematic collection, analysis, and interpretation of health outcomes for use in planning, implementation, reporting, and evaluation of public health. Additional topics include basic concepts and procedures of sample designs, graphical techniques, and statistical methods of population sampling. PUBH 7445 - Genetic Epidemiology (3) This course will serve as a basic introduction to genetic epidemiology and its application in research. Basic concepts of human genetics will be introduced, and the research methods used to study the genetic basis of disease will be presented. Research methods discussed will include family based studies such as twin studies and affected sib pair linkage analyses, and candidate gene methods such as case-control, cohort and transmission/disequilibrium test. Gene-environment and gene-gene interaction will also be discussed. The course will conclude with a discussion of ethical issues around genetic epidemiology, current research and future directions. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7150 AND PUBH 7170, OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR. PUBH 7447 - Public Health Genomics (3) This course introduces students to the field of public health genomics through providing an overview of the field and evaluating challenges associated with the translation of genomic information into public health practices. The course materials will be presented on selected topics including: historical background of the field, genetic testing and counseling, communication of genomic information to public, using genomic information in disease prevention and health promotion efforts, genomic information in health care practices, ethical issues, genetics and race/health disparities, and implications of genomic information for communities. PUBH 7450 - Randomized Clinical Trials (3) The purpose of this course is to provide students with a thorough grounding in the conduct of randomized clinical trials (RCTs) including design, management, evaluation, and resource acquisition. Emphasis is placed on RCTs that are relevant to public health research and practice. PUBH 7501 - Health Systems Organizations (3) This course focuses on issues that contribute to assessing and improving the quality of health systems and services, including: institutional reforms and capacity building, politics and governance, health system financing, public/private partnerships, and building community capacity. The course will emphasize how problems come to be recognized and defined, their characteristics and magnitude, and plans and programs to alleviate them. Students will be taught to understand health system characteristics, problems, policies and management and to champion solutions to structural and behavioral challenges in the health care system. PUBH 7502 - Hlth Policy, Theory & Methods (3) This course provides students with historical, theoretical, and analytic foundations to conduct research in health policy. It is assumed that students are familiar with health systems and services and are aware of the major policy issues facing the US health care system today. In addition, students are expected to have basic knowledge of research methods and strategies. This class will apply this existing knowledge to policy research questions. Students are expected to demonstrate this knowledge in class discussions and presentations. PRE-REQUISITE: HADM 7105 OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR. PUBH 7503 - Health Systems Decision-Making (3) This course addresses decision-making processes associated with managing risk in healthcare organizations in multiple healthcare settings. Students will examine and evaluate the quality of risk management decisions for program-level decisions as well as for addressing enterprise-wide risks. Students will learn to structure challenging decision problems using critical thinking, to gather information, develop alternatives based upon organizational values, mission, and objectives, and determine the best course of action. PUBH 7504 - IT & Organizational Change (3) This course will focus on electronic medical records, and the potential for health IT to improve quality; the economics of healthcare IT; theories of diffusion of innovations; theories of the relationship between healthcare IT, and behavior, practice and healthcare organizational changes; the costs and benefits of healthcare IT in costs, benefits and quality improvement; and alternative health policy approaches to hasten IT adoption in health care. PUBH 7505 - Aging, Pub Hlth, & Hlth Svs (3) The graduate seminar introduces students to population aging and the current U.S. infrastructure designed to provide health services to the aging. It also focuses on federal and state policies that affect the health of older individuals as well as the systems designed to meet their health care needs. The class will follow an interactive seminar format with a combination of traditional lectures, guest speakers, student presentations, student-led discussions, and writing assignments. PUBH 7601 - PUBH Preparedness & Response (3) This course will introduce the organizational structure of emergency management and the specific role of public health emergency management in preparedness and response. Key topics include the common framework for emergency response, public health law, public health surveillance tools, and health concerns of vulnerable populations. PUBH 7603 - PUBH Emergency Response Ldrshp (3) This course will identify the range of hazards that public health emergency managers must confront in order to understand the public health consequences and create the plans that guide us through our response. Key topics include leadership and mitigation strategies that can reduce morbidity and mortality resulting from disasters. PUBH 7710 - HealthCare Economics (3) (cross-listed with ECON 7710-8710) Applies basic economic concepts to analyze health care market and evaluate health policies; including distinctive economic characteristics of health, health care industry, and health care professionals; American system of health care; current health care policy issues such as health care reform, managed care, and manpower planning. PREREQUISITES: ECON 7010 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. PUBH 7880 - Leadership Skills for GA (3) Overview and practical demonstrations of leadership skills to enhance professional development for graduate assistants. NOTE: PUBH graduate students may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. PREREQUISITE: PERMISSION OF ADVISOR. PUBH 7985 - Practicum/Field Experience (3-6) PUBH 7992 - Master's Project Seminar (3) Capstone course for the MPH program, drawing from all previous learning in the program. Students identify a public health problem, develop a format for intervention, conduct the intervention, and evaluate program success; requires formal report and oral presentation. PREREQUISITES: Completion of core cousework and minimum of 24 credit hours toward the MPH degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PUBH 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PUBH 8014 - Public Health Communication (3) (COMM 7014-8014) Explores the communication processes and practices that can be used to promote positive change in health behaviors, including the rhetorical exigencies inherent in public health care communication, the various formats for disseminating medical information, and the specific audience needs that health care communication must address. PUBH 8104 - Large Data Sets/PUBH Research (3) This course addresses secondary data analysis of health quality and outcomes issues. Secondary data analysis using large, public data sets will be examined. Issues related to secondary analysis and drawing items from multiple data sets will be discussed. Analytical techniques such as adjustments for missing data, transformations of data, and risk adjusstment will be applied using public data sets. PUBH 8120 - Environmental Health I (3) This doctoral course introduces complex and interlinked environmental issues facing public health professionals; presents concepts, principles, and applications of natural and social science disciplines forming the basis of environmental health; introduces environmental issues relevant to health problems; develops communication skills by discussing public health issues and environmental policies. PUBH 8122 - Environmental Health II (3) This course focuses on specific cases of environmental hazards and related health problems. It also focuses on the applied aspect of sources of environmental data, methods of environmental data collection, risk assessment and use of such data for policy development and risk management. PUBH 8124 - Environmental Toxicology (3) This course discusses basic principles governing the behavior and effects of toxic chemicals released into the environment; sources, distribution, and fate of toxic chemicals in the environment; chemicals and cancer and birth defects; government regulation of chemical hazards. Focus is on human health impacts of chemicals found in the workplace and general environment. PUBH 8125 - Environmental Health Microbiol (3) This course provides introduction to foodborne and waterborne microbial disease including sources and routes of transmission of microbes from the environment to humans; identification of common water and foodborne pathogens and methods for their detection and surveillance; safe preservation and intervention methods to reduce microbial loads in food and water; regulatory aspects of prevention of foodborne disease and how information from surveillance is used to improve public health policy and practice. PRE-REQUISITE: one college level course in both biology and chemistry. PUBH 8126 - Prin Exposure/Risk Assessmnt (3) Understanding of exposure and risk is a necessary application and of growing importance in environmental health studies. This course is designed to provide concepts, methods, models, statistics and theory necessary for the assessment of exposure to environmental agents and health risk from exposures. Topics to be covered include: the selection of study populations; identification and quantification of exposure pathways; the design of exposure assessment strategies; exposure measurement methods; risk assessment framework, modeling of health effects; and derivation of risk estimates. Specific examples of exposure and risk assessments will be analyzed and critiqued. PUBH 8128 - Envrnmnt Policy/DecisionMaking (3) The course will present regulatory and non-regulatory approaches to the management of toxic substances in the environment, with emphasis on the scientific/technical basis for toxic substances control. It will examine approaches at the international level, in the European Union, and at the federal and state levels in the U.S. Overviews of each approach will be provided with the majority of the course dedicated to examination of the use of risk-based and public health-based approaches to toxicant control in regulatory as well as non-regulatory contexts. Topics that will be integrated into this examination include risk communication, risk perception, risk-benefit and cost-benefit analysis, and environmental justice.PRE-REQUISITES: 7124-8124 and 7126-8126 PUBH 8129 - Envrnmntl Sampling & Analysis (3) This is a graduate level laboratory and lecture course on principles, equipment, instrumentation, methodologies, and strategies for measuring environmental chemical and biological contaminants. We will examine sampling techniques, analytical methods, quality assurance/quality control, and regulatory mandates applied to air, water and soil samples. It is designed for students in the environmental health sciences and other graduate students interested in occupational and ambient-environmental exposure assessments for regulatory compliance and risk estimation. PUBH 8130 - Social Determinants of Health (3) This course focuses on the systematic study of the economic and social conditions which determine health. It examines the social gradient in health and explores how social influences such as poverty, social capital, job security, neighborhood characteristics, social support, transportation, discrimination, and stress affect health and longevity. It also explores structural interventions in shaping social environments that are conducive to better health. PRE-REQUISITE: PUBH 7160/8160 OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR PUBH 8131 - Social/Behavioral Policy Devel (3) This course will introduce students to how theories and methods in the social and behavioral sciences are applied to the development and implementation of public policy aimed at health prevention and promotion. Several current primary and secondary prevention issues will be used as exemplars, including tobacco control, physical activity, injury control, and regulation of food supply. PUBH 8132 - Health Program Evaluation (3) This graduate seminar provides qualitative and quantitative perspectives on health program evaluation. The course examines various models, theories, methods, and processes in evaluating community and public health programs. It is a practice-oriented course and facilitates students developing applied skills in the field of health program evaluation. PUBH 8135 - Social Ntwrk Concepts in PUBH (3) This course introduces students to the concepts of social networks and social relationships and how these factors are associated with health. Students will be provided with an overview of the history of social network research, social network constructs and measurements, and their application in health research and interventions. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7150 AND PUBH 7160, OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR. PUBH 8140 - Epidemiology Chronic Disease (3) This course is designed to provide graduate students with knowledge on major chronic diseases and skill on applying various epidemiologic methods to design and conduct epidemiological studies on chronic diseases. The course covers selected topics in chronic disease with critical analysis of the current epidemiologic literature. PUBH 8141 - Epidemiologic Survey Method (3) This course provides students in Public Health with the basic elements in designing and performing survey research. The course describes the initial steps in formulating and focusing the research question and proceeds to the key steps in performing survey research, i.e., identifying the target population, obtaining an appropriate sample, designing the survey instrument and implementing it. PUBH 8150 - Biostatistical Methods I (3) Introduces elementary methods for presenting public health data in summary form and analyzing data; not a mathematics course and will not stress derivations of formulae; instead, emphasizes the application of statistical ideas and methods to the design and interpretation of public health studies. PUBH 8152 - Biostatistical Methods II (3) This course is the second course in Biometric statistics for public health research. It is intended for advanced students in public health who are interested in gaining expertise in advanced Biometric data analysis. You will be introduced to Biometric statistical modeling techniques commonly used in public health as well as analysis procedures using SPSS and SAS computer software. PUBH 8153 - Biostat. in Bioinformatics (3) This course is offered every other year to Master (7000 level) and Doctoral (8000 level) students. This course focuses on statistical methods in application to bioinformatics data and other large data sets with similar features. Students will be introduced to R programming, a commonly used programming language implemented in bioinformatics data analyses. This will be an applied course with focus on learning the methods, applying the methods, and programming in R. Prerequisite: PUBH 7150 (Biostatistical Methods I). PUBH 8155 - SPSS for Health Research (1) designed to introduce SPH students to programming and data structure topics they would be expected to know when using SPSS in their coursework or job. Please note that this is not a statistics course so statistical programming or statistical procedures will not be covered. All programming topics will be demonstrated using public health data sets. PUBH 8156 - SAS for Health Research (1) designed to introduce SPH students to programming topics they would be expected to know when using SAS in their coursework or job. SAS is a very complex, sophisticated application so we will concentrate on the simple basics. This is strictly an applied course with obvious emphasis on using SAS Information Delivery Software, mainly SAS/base. PUBH 8160 - Soc/Behav Science Principles (3) This graduate level course will focus on the contribution of social and behavioral sciences to the understanding of the distribution, etiology, and solution of public health problems. The theoretical underpinnings of the most relevant explanation, planning, change, and evaluation theories will be reviewd in depth and illustrated with examples of the application of these models to helath promotion and disease prevention with individuals, groups and communities. PUBH 8161 - Adv Psychosocial Thry Hlth (3) This course provides a multidisciplinary theoretical approach to the study of health and health behavior. Emphasis is on the use of psychosocial theories in health-related practice, policy-making, and research. Other theoretical perspectives, such as the ecological and biopsychosocial models, are addressed in order to integrate these theoretical perspectives. PUBH 8165 - PUBH Approaches to HIV/AIDS (3) This course introduces students to critical issues in HIV/AIDS prevention in diverse community settings using an ecological perspective to understand how multiple levels of influence contribute to HIV/AIDS disparities. Social determinants of HIV/AIDS/STI transmission will be addressed. The course will integrate various approaches to eliminating HIV/AIDS disparities including community-based participatory research, faith-based initiatives, and community-based methods. PUBH 8170 - Epidemiology in PUBH (3) This doctoral level course provides foundation needed to interpret, use, and research epidemiological data; focuses on methodological aspects of epidemiology as it applies to investigation of public health problems and guidance of public health planning and policies. PUBH 8172 - Epidemiology PUBH II (3) This course is designed for epidemiology majors and other students requiring a more thorough knowledge of the concepts and methods used in epidemiological research. This course stresses analytical study designs and etiologic research. Topics include exposure-disease associations, threats to internal validity and their control, and valid interpretation of study results, including concepts of association, causality, and effect modification. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7150 AND PUBH 7170, OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR PUBH 8174 - Epidemiology PUBH III (3) This course is designed for doctoral and advanced master's degree students. The course focuses on the nature of causality in biological systems and the methods by which it may be determined. The course also focuses on extracting, organizing and interpreting various evidence to support public health and medical practices. Both observational and experimental study designs are considered. Landmark studies from the epidemiologic literature will be extensively used to illustrate these issues. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7150, PUBH 7170, AND PUBH 7172, OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR. PUBH 8175 - Lab Tech in Molecular Epi (3) 7000/8000 level; Lecture/Lab Hours: 3 contact hours (2-5 pm)/week This course covers cross-disciplinary approaches incorporating genomics and proteomics- based molecular laboratory techniques/methods currently used in epidemiology to identify and detect risk factors for diseases and to facilitate intervention. In addition to lectures, the course includes a series of laboratory modules to provide students with hands-on experience in different laboratory methods used in epidemiologic studies, investigation in microbial infectious diseases, and cancer diagnostics and treatments. Prerequisite: at least one college level course in both biology and chemistry. PUBH 8180 - Foundations of Public Health (3) Provides foundation for critical analysis of current public health issues, facilitating discussion of contemporary issues and challenges of public health policy and practice; key topics include balancing individual and societal rights; public health ethics; health disparities; cultural competence, socio-ecologic appraches to promote health; public health concerns in urban communities; and current public health practice. PUBH 8190 - Adv SAS for PUBH Prof 1 (3) This class introduces students to advanced SAS programming statements and techniques using the SAS system software. PREREQUISITES: PUBH 7150 or equivalent; students outside the School of Public Health must obtain permission from the instructor. PUBH 8191 - Adv SAS for PUBH Prof II (3) This class introduces students to advanced SAS programming language statements and methods specifically for data management and reporting. Students will learn methods and techniques to identify data errors, use methods for data entry, maintain analytical data sets and summarize clinical/medical encounter data. This class is a continuation of PUBH 7190-8190. PREREQUISITES: PUBH 7150 or equivalent; PUBH 7190-8190; students outside the School of Public Health must obtain permission from the instructor. PUBH 8200 - Research Meth in Soc Beh Sci (3) This course provides a comprehensive introduction to step-by-step research process, including research design, data collection, interpretation, and guidelines for writing and presenting results in social and behavioral sciences. It covers a range of research methods, including observational techniques, survey research, focus groups, and in-depth interviews. Emphasis is placed on understanding the strengths, weaknesses, and underlying logic of different procedures for obtaining empirical evidence for rigorous population health research. PUBH 8305 - Quant Meth Review Rsch (3) (same as PSYC 7305-8305). This course focuses on quantitative strategies for reviewing research findings in the social sciences. These quantitative review techniques (often referred to as ?meta-analysis?) can help investigators summarize and resolve conflicts in past research. The course should be particularly useful to graduate students who are planning to conduct literature review as part of a research project, master?s thesis, or doctoral dissertation. PRE-REQUISITES: Students enrolled in this course are expected to have completed PSYC 7302/8302 or an equivalent graduate-level statistics course, and to have a basic understanding of the analysis of variance and multiple regression. PUBH 8306 - Linear Struct Modeling (3) (PSYC 7306-8306). The purpose of this course is to provide students with an introduction to structural equation modeling (SEM). An emphasis will be placed on helping students use/apply SEM methodology to answer research questions in their areas of interest. After completing this course, students should be able to (1) conduct structural equation analyses using SAS, AMOS, and Mplus, (2) communicate results of structural equation analyses in both written and verbal form, (3) evaluate strengths and limitations of studies employing SEM techniques, and (4) provide consultation to colleagues on SEM related issues. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7152 OR EQUIVALENT. PUBH 8307 - App Struct Equ Modeling in PH (3) This course will provide knowledge about the fundamentals of structural equation modeling, and its practical applications in public health. It will provide details of structural equation modeling, from statistical concepts to how to perform various types of structural equation analyses. Topics will include covariance structures, path diagrams, path analysis, model identification, model testing with emphasis on confirmatory factor analysis and invariance testing. Statistical software recommended for this course are SAS and SPSS AMOS. PREREQUISITE: PUBH 7152-8152 PUBH 8308 - Appl Multivariate Stat (3) (PSYC 7308-8308). Covers multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) with independent designs and extensions to repeated measures and ANOVA. Goals include review of conceptual bases, learning SPSS and SAS procedures, learning analysis of simple and complex designs, and learning special post-hoc procedures. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7152/8152 OR EQUIVALENT. PUBH 8309 - Appl Surv Analys in Pub Hlth (3) This course will cover the statistical concepts and techniques that are useful in the field of public health for the analysis of survival data or time to event data. The course will examine the features unique to survival data which distinguishes these data from other more familiar types of data. Topics include survival functions, hazard rates, types of censoring and truncation. Methods will include life tables, Kaplan-Meier plots, log-rank tests, Cox regression models, and Inference for parametric regression models. Statistical software recommended for this course are SAS and SPSS. PREREQUISITE: PUBH 7150 or instructors permission. PUBH 8310 - Mixed Model Regression Analys (3) Instruction in the use of mixed-model regression with a focus on design and ananlysis of group-randomized trials; attention also given to analysis of data from surveys based on cluster sampling, longitudinal studies, and studies involving matching. Same as PSYC 7310-8310. PUBH 8311 - Appl Categorical Data Analys (3) Instruction includes tabular, logistic, and Poisson and Cox regression, as well as interpretation of SAS output. For advanced students in psychology, education, and public health pusuing a career in research. Same as PSYC 7311-8311. PUBH 8333 - Addictive Behaviors (3) This course provides public health students with an introduction to the historical, clinical, epidemiological, and public policy issues related to addictive behaviors, including alcohol, tobacco, illicit drugs, and gambling. Students will be exposed to a variety of methodological approaches used by social and behavioral scientists to study addictive behaviors, including ethnography, surveys, geographical information systems, and clinical trials. PUBH 8334 - Comm Based Part Resrch Mthds (3) This course familiarizes students with key historical underpinnings of community based participatory research (CBPR), principles of CBPR practice, and methodological considerations in building community partnerships; community assessment; issue analysis; research planning; data gathering; and data sharing. The course will also address cultural competence; working with diverse populations; ethical considerations; as well as funding and Institutional Review Board issues. PUBH 8335 - Struct/Environ Iss/Urban Comm (3) This course focuses on concepts of risk and burden of disease in urban communities. It examines contemporary issues and challenges of the social, cultural, built, and physical environments of urban communities. Key topics include public health and urban health; roots of health inequality; risk and burden of disearse; stress, socio-economic and structural influences on health; and community-based approaches (CBPR) to address public health concerns in urban communities. PUBH 8336 - Women's Health (3) This course examines topics in women's health in the United States; the programs, services, and policies that affect women's health; and methodological issues in research about women's health. the epidemiology, measurement and interpretation of these factors, and how these factors can be translated into interventions, programs, and policy, will be of major interest. PUBH 8337 - Eating Behavior,Nutr, & Family (3) This graduate course examines family-based influences on feeding behavior and nutrition from a developmental perspective. Topics covered include how parent and family contextual factors affect the develoopment of eating behaviors across infancy, childhood and adolescence; the relation of parenting practices, eating attitudes, and parent characteristcs to feeding problems in special populations; and family influences on the development of disordered eating in children and adolescents. PUBH 8338 - Critical Issues in Global Hlth (3) This course focuses on critical issues in global health emphasizing the multidisciplinary approach to understanding global health problems as they occur within and across borders. Concepts include the interplay between global stressors such as population, urbanization, economics, environment, and war; and their effects on the spread of infectious and chronic diseases, nutrition, and environmental health. PUBH 8339 - Transl Rsrch Meth Pop Hlth (3) This course covers methods to plan, design and evaluate the potential translatability and public health impact of prevention interventions. Methodological issues to be considered include reach, representativeness, adoption, implementation, adaptation, impact, scalability, and sustainability of interventions. Measurement and metrics to assess these elements and evaluate their impact will be included. PUBH 8340 - Behavioral Intervention Develp (3) This course provides training in the development of theory-based behavioral interventions that are relevant to public health research and practice. Focuses on community and population level strategies and methods. PREREQUISITE: PUBH 7160-8160 or permission of instructor. PUBH 8341 - Physical Activity/Public Hlth (3) This course is an overview of physical activity programming and interventions within the public health framework. Students will study issues germane to physical activity and public health; acquire knowledge of current research, best practices, guidelines and recommendations for physical activity; and develop skills integral to the design, implementation, and evaluation of public health programs that are intended to promote physical activity in specific populations. PUBH 8342 - Epidemiology Min/Ethnic Pop (3) This course provides an evidence-based approach to the study of the epidemiology and heatlh disparities of racial and ethnic groups in the U.S. Emphasis is placed on historical events and immigration policies that have contributed to the prominent size of these populations, identification of data sources to describe this demographic imperative and health status, and on socio-political, cultural, and religious influences that inform public policy on health disparities. PUBH 8343 - Tobacco Use:Cause,Conseq,Ctrl (3) This course utilizes a multi-level approach to public health by providing a comprehensive overview of the health effects, history, marketing, politics, and control of tobacco use, combining medical, psychsocial, epidemiological and economic perspectives to give students a framework for understanding tobacco addiction and its prevention and treatment. PUBH 8345 - Health Literacy (3) (Same as COMM 7345-8345) This course will introduce students to the issues of health literacy from a public health perpective. We will explore the impact of health literacy on access to care, vulnerable populations, management of chronic illness, mental health, healthcare costs, and several other areas. PUBH 8346 - Public Mental Health (3) This course provides an overview of mental health issues from a public health perspective. Topics include differentiating mental health from mental illness, socio-economic disparities in mental illness, community-based services for the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of prevalent mental illnesses, and major mental heatlh policy issues in the United States. PUBH 8347 - Qualitative Mtds Hlth Research (3) This course provides an overview of qualitative research methods commonly used in health related research, including the basic skills needed for data collection and analysis and an understanding of philosophical and epistemological roots. Students will learn to develop and critique a qualitative research proposal in terms of design, technique, analysis and interpretation. PUBH 8348 - Hlth Equity,Cult Comp,Soc Just (3) This course provides a foundation for needs assessment of current public health issues to promote heatlh equity. Key topics include health disparities; cultural competence in community intervention development; cultural approaches to health, illness, and health-seeking behavior; and public health challenges in divers communities in achieving health equity and promoting social justice. PUBH 8400 - Special Problems (3) Independent investigation of a research problem or directed readings, in a selected area of public health chosen in consultation with the instructor. Only six hours of credit may be applied to a degree. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credits. PUBH 8442 - Cancer Epidemiology (3) The course concentrates on distribution and trends of incidence, mortality and survival of major cancer types. It also discusses in depth current theories of cancer etiology, including radiation, tobacco, alcohol, drugs, occupation and other environmental, biologic and behavioral factors. Special issues of epidemiological research in cancer, such as study design, issues related to abstracting information from medical and other records and retrospective assessment of exposures will also be emphasized. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7150 AND PUBH 7170, OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR. PUBH 8443 - Infectious Disease Epidemiolgy (3) This course is designed to introduce students to the basic concepts in infectious disease epidemiology. Topics include history and major concepts of infectious disease epidemiology, investigating new outbreaks, emerging infectious disease and bioterrorism. Measures for controlling infectious disease, such as surveillance, vaccination, and vector control will be taught. Major infectious diseases will be discussed in some detail, including HIV/AIDS, TB, Malaria, and Flu. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7150 AND PUBH 7170, OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR. PUBH 8444 - PUBH Surveillance Fundamentals (3) This course covers topics related to the systematic collection, analysis, and interpretation of health outcomes for use in planning, implementation, reporting, and evaluation of public health. Additional topics include basic concepts and procedures of sample designs, graphical techniques, and statistical methods of population sampling. PUBH 8445 - Genetic Epidemiology (3) This course will serve as a basic introduction to genetic epidemiology and its application in research. Basic concepts of human genetics will be introduced, and the research methods used to study the genetic basis of disease will be presented. Research methods discussed will include family based studies such as twin studies and affected sib pair linkage analyses, and candidate gene methods such as case-control, cohort and transmission/disequilibrium test. Gene-environment and gene-gene interaction will also be discussed. The course will conclude with a discussion of ethical issues around genetic epidemiology, current research and future directions. PRE-REQUISITES: PUBH 7150 AND PUBH 7170, OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR. PUBH 8447 - Public Health Genomics (3) This course introduces students to the field of public health genomics through providing an overview of the field and evaluating challenges associated with the translation of genomic information into public health practices. The course materials will be presented on selected topics including: historical background of the field, genetic testing and counseling, communication of genomic information to public, using genomic information in disease prevention and health promotion efforts, genomic information in health care practices, ethical issues, genetics and race/health disparities, and implications of genomic information for communities. PUBH 8450 - Randomized Clinical Trials (3) The purpose of this course is to provide students with a thorough grounding in the conduct of randomized clinical trials (RCTs) including design, management, evaluation, and resource acquisition. Emphasis is placed on RCTs that are relevant to public health research and practice. PUBH 8501 - Health Systems Organizations (3) This course focuses on issues that contribute to assessing and improving the quality of health systems and services, including: institutional reforms and capacity building, politics and governance, health system financing, public/private partnerships, and building community capacity. The course will emphasize how problems come to be recognized and defined, their characteristics and magnitude, and plans and programs to alleviate them. Students will be taught to understand health system characteristics, problems, policies and management and to champion solutions to structural and behavioral challenges in the health care system. PUBH 8502 - Hlth Policy, Theory & Methods (3) This course provides students with historical, theoretical, and analytic foundations to conduct research in health policy. It is assumed that students are familiar with health systems and services and are aware of the major policy issues facing the US health care system today. In addition, students are expected to have basic knowledge of research methods and strategies. This class will apply this existing knowledge to policy research questions. Students are expected to demonstrate this knowledge in class discussions and presentations. PRE-REQUISITE: HADM 7105 OR PERMISSION OF INSTRUCTOR. PUBH 8503 - Health Systems Decision-Making (3) This course addresses decision-making processes associated with managing risk in healthcare organizations in multiple healthcare settings. Students will examine and evaluate the quality of risk management decisions for program-level decisions as well as for addressing enterprise-wide risks. Students will learn to structure challenging decision problems using critical thinking, to gather information, develop alternatives based upon organizational values, mission, and objectives, and determine the best course of action. PUBH 8504 - IT & Organizational Change (3) This course will focus on electronic medical records, and the potential for health IT to improve quality; the economics of healthcare IT; theories of diffusion of innovations; theories of the relationship between healthcare IT, and behavior, practice and healthcare organizational changes; the costs and benefits of healthcare IT in costs, benefits and quality improvement; and alternative health policy approaches to hasten IT adoption in health care. PUBH 8601 - PUBH Preparedness & Response (3) This course will introduce the organizational structure of emergency management and the specific role of public health emergency management in preparedness and response. Key topics include the common framework for emergency response, public health law, public health surveillance tools, and health concerns of vulnerable populations. PUBH 8603 - PUBH Emergency Response Ldrshp (3) This course will identify the range of hazards that public health emergency managers must confront in order to understand the public health consequences and create the plans that guide us through our response. Key topics include leadership and mitigation strategies that can reduce morbidity and mortality resulting from disasters. PUBH 8710 - HealthCare Economics (3) (cross-listed with ECON 7710-8710) Applies basic economic concepts to analyze health care market and evaluate health policies; including distinctive economic characteristics of health, health care industry, and health care professionals; American system of health care; current health care policy issues such as health care reform, managed care, and manpower planning. PREREQUISITES: ECON 7010 or equivalent, or permission of instructor. PUBH 8800 - Guided Research in PUBH (1-6) Students will conduct public health-related research under the mentorship of a faculty member. PUBH 8900 - Adv Concepts in PUBH I (3) One of two core PhD seminars for all entering students to the doctoral programs in the School of Public Health, this seminar is intended to provide the ?big picture? context in which public health and other health sciences research is conducted. The seminar focuses on four broad areas: (1) the philosophy of science, history of science, scientific revolutions and paradigms, and the scientific method; (2) the important role that theory plays in setting a research agenda and conducting research generally?and being engaged in public health research in particular; (3) the interdisciplinary nature of public health research and practice; and (4) scientific inquiry as a life?s work?reflecting on several individual?s personal perspectives. PUBH 8901 - Adv Concepts in PUBH II (3) This is one of two required seminar courses for all doctoral students in the School of Public Health. The seminar will address a variety of professional and personal issues that are vital to success as a doctoral student and public health professional. Topics include developing positive mentor/mentee relationships, time management, manuscript and grant writing, reviewing other?s scientific work, delivering poster and oral presentations, teaching skills, preparing curriculum vitae, networking and job negotiation/survival skills. PRE-REQUISITE: Enrollment as a doctoral student in the School of Public Health. PUBH 9000 - Dissertation (1-9) Independent research for Doctor of Philosophy degree. Only 9 hours may be counted toward degree requirements. Students must be enrolled in this course during the semester in which the student expects to graduate. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .