#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11397
Assistant Professor in United States Women&#x27;s and Gender History Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant Professor in United States Women's and Gender History Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC437 Advertised Title Assistant Professor in United States Women's and Gender History Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 001002 Category Full-Time Faculty Department History Position Summary The Department of History at The University of Memphis seeks an outstanding scholar for a tenure-track Assistant Professor position in the History of Women and Gender in the United States, with a specialization in the 20th century, pending funding availability. Minimum Position Qualifications Ph.D. in History required by the time of appointment. The successful candidate will possess a strong research agenda, good teaching skills, and the willingness to regularly teach History of Women in America, United States history survey courses, and graduate historiography courses. Special Conditions Posting Date 10/30/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range Commensurate with experience Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants The application process is online at . Choose “Faculty,” then “Assistant Professor in United States Women’s and Gender History.” All applicants will be expected to have at hand, ready for immediate upload: • Letter of application • C.V. • Writing sample (Upload in “Other Document 1”) • Academic transcript • Contact information (including email addresses) for three professional references Instructions to Applicant regarding references The Search Committee for the position of Assistant Professor in United States Women&#8217;s and Gender History has established that reference letters must be submitted in order for an applicant to be fully considered for this position. You must submit email addresses for three (3) reference providers. The system, workForum, will send an email to your reference providers. Thank you for your cooperation and interest in employment at The University of Memphis. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Cover Letter Other Document 1 References List Unofficial Transcript Optional Documents