#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/scsd.php
School of Communication Sciences and Disorders - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning School of Communication Sciences and Disorders School of Communication Sciences and Disorders MAURICE I. MENDEL, PhD Dean LINDA JARMULOWICZ, PhD Associate Dean DAVID J. WARK, PhD Director of Graduate Studies 901.678.5800 Individual program requirements described in The University of Memphis Graduate Bulletin, 2015-2016, are subject to change. Please consult your department or the Graduate School web page for changes that may occur before publication of the next issue of this Bulletin . All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. I. The School of Communication Sciences and Disorders offers graduate programs leading to the PhD degree with a major in Communication Sciences and Disorders with concentrations in (1) Hearing Sciences and Disorders or (2) Speech-Language Sciences and Disorders, the AuD degree with a major in Audiology, and the MA degree with a major in Speech-Language Pathology. The School is accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation (CAA) from the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. Students may not enroll for courses as graduate non-degree except by permission of the instructor and with approval of the Director of Graduate Studies. II. MA Degree Program A. Program Admission The admissions committee will review all applications. Students should have a GPA of 3.00 (on a 4 point system). GRE scores are required (General Test). Students are admitted in the fall semester only. Application instructions are available online at . Although applications may be submitted at any time, likelihood of acceptance and financial assistance for the fall semester is greater for applications received prior to February 1. Applicants should submit recommendations from at least three individuals familiar with the applicant's academic background and aptitude for graduate work in Speech-Language Pathology. Applicant should also submit a personal statement describing his/her professional goals and preparation for study in Speech-Language Pathology. Students are expected to be proficient in understanding and use of English. B. Background Requirements To be considered for admission, all applicants must have completed or be in the process of completing a baccalaureate degree from an accredited institution of higher learning. Previous academic preparation in audiology/speech-language pathology is not a requirement for admission. Non-CSD basic science coursework necessary to meet U of M graduation, ASHA certification, and State Licensure: Biological Science (3) Statistics(3) Behavioral/Social Science (6) Physical Science (minimum 1 credit) If college-level credits for these courses have not been earned upon enrollment, they will need to be completed during the MA graduate program. C. General Program Requirements Students must complete a minimum of 60 credit hours and meet the academic and practicum requirements for the Certificate of Clinical Competence of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. Additional coursework will be required for those students without undergraduate preparation in audiology/speech-language pathology. Full time study requires enrollment in clinical practicum. Students must attain a grade of 3.00 or above in at least 9 semester hours of clinical practicum, and must obtain a 3.00 or above in their last two semesters of clinical practicum. A maximum of 8 credit hours of AUSP 7200, AUSP 7208 and AUSP 8208 may be counted toward the 50-hour requirement. A thesis or non-thesis option is available. Students choosing the non-thesis option must take a minimum of 3 credits of either AUSP 7990 (Special Project) or AUSP 7991 (Clinical-Research Colloquium) or a combination of both. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. All students must complete written comprehensive examinations. D. Retention Requirements All students enrolled in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders are expected to attain high academic achievement and maintain professional and ethical conduct. In addition to Graduate School policy the criteria listed below will be used to determine the retention status of students enrolled in the School. General Academic Performance: Grades of less than 2.0 in required courses are considered unacceptable and must be repeated in order to meet graduation requirements. A student may count two grades of 2.00 toward their degree.Students have the option of repeating two courses in which a grade of 2.00 or less was earned. The student will be dismissed at the end of the semester in which a third grade of 2.00 or less has been earned. Students are expected to maintain a cumulative grade point average of 3.00 at the end of each semester of enrollment at the University of Memphis. A GPA below 3.00 across two consecutive semesters may be grounds for dismissal. Professional Performance: Because the MA in Speech-Language Pathology is a professional practice degree, satisfactory acquisition of knowledge and skills for certification as prescribed by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association is required. Failure to achieve any of these standards for clinical performance may result in dismissal from the program. The cumulative grade of the first two semesters of clinical practicum (7200/7208) must be a B- (2.67) or greater. A cumulative clinic grade for the last five semesters must be at least 3.00. Students must obtain a B (3.00) or better in each of their last 2 semesters. Students may be dismissed for any of the following: Failure to maintain appropriate standards of academic integrity or CSD Policies. Failure to follow the ASHA Code of Ethics. Failure to follow HIPAA guidelines. A grade of 1.67 or lower in clinic practicum will mandate a review within the School and may be grounds for dismissal. E. Specific Requirements Professional Background Coursework (6 hours, may be taken at the University of Memphis): Audiology: Hearing Disorders/Evaluation (3), Habilitation/Rehabilitation (3) Speech-Language Pathology Minimum Degree Requirements (Required courses are marked with *, all others are electives): Basic Communication Processes (15 hours minimum): *AUSP 7000 Speech Science AUSP 7002 Seminar in Communication Sciences *AUSP 7003 Anatomy and Physiology of the Speech Mechanism *AUSP 7006 Language and Speech Development *AUSP 7007 Communicative Interaction AUSP 7008 Acoustic and Perceptual Phonetics *AUSP 7010 Neurological Bases of Communication AUSP 7011 Psycholinguistics AUSP 7016 Socio-Cultural Bases of Communication Speech Disorders (6 hours minimum): AUSP 7201 Cleft Palate and Craniofacial Disorders AUSP 7202 Motor Speech Disorders in Children AUSP 7203 Voice Disorders AUSP 7204 Disorders of Phonology and Articulation AUSP 7205 Fluency Disorders AUSP 7206 Neuromotor Speech Disorders in Adults AUSP 7209 Dysphagia and Related Disorders AUSP 7210 Seminar in Speech Pathology AUSP 7212 Autism Spectrum Disorders and Related Disabilities AUSP 7309 Speech Rehabilitation for Head/Neck Pathologies Language Disorders (6 hours minimum): AUSP 7300 Language Disorders in Children AUSP 7302 Language Disorders in Adults I AUSP 7303 Language Disorders in Adults II AUSP 7304 Seminar in Language Disorders AUSP 7305 Language Learning Disabilities Clinical Practicum (14 hours minimum): *AUSP 7200 Introduction to Clinical Practice in Speech-Language Pathology *AUSP 7208 Clinical Experience in Speech-Language Pathology Other Required Courses (7 hours): *AUSP 7500 Evaluating Research in Communication Disorders *AUSP 7501 Phonetic Transcription 3 Credits of Research Experience (AUSP 7990, AUSP 7996, or AUSP 7991) III. Certification and State Licensure School degree requirements meet the academic and clinical training requirements for certification by the American Speech-Language and Hearing Association, teacher certification, and state licensure. IV. AuD Program A. Program Admission The admissions committee will review all applications. Student should have a GPA of 3.00 (on a 4-point system). GRE scores are required (General Test). Students are admitted in the fall semester only. Application instructions are available online at . Although applications may be submitted at any time, likelihood of acceptance and financial assistance for the fall semester is greater for applications received prior to February 1. Applicants should submit recommendations from at least three individuals familiar with the applicant's academic background and aptitude for graduate work in Audiology. Applicant should also submit a personal statement describing his/her professional goals and preparation for study in Audiology. Students are expected to be proficient in understanding and using English. B. Assumed Background To be considered for admission, all applicants must have completed or be in the process of completing a baccalaureate degree from an accredited institution of higher learning. Previous academic preparation in audiology/speech-language pathology is not a requirement for admission. The AuD program assumes that students have basic coursework in the biological, physical, mathematical, and social/behavioral sciences, as shown below, by the time of graduation. In addition, students are required to have completed two courses in speech-language development/disorders in order to meet program graduate requirements. This coursework should be completed at the undergraduate level. However, if not, this coursework may be taken during the AuD program at the University of Memphis and is not required for admission. Biological Science (3) Mathematical Science (3) Physical Sciences (3) Behavioral Sciences (3) Normal Speech-Language Development (3) Language Disorders (3) C. General Program Requirements Students must complete a minimum of 99 credit hours and meet the academic and practicum requirements for the Certificate of Clinical Competence of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. Additional coursework will be required for those students without undergraduate preparation in audiology/speech-language pathology. A maximum of 24 credit hours in AUSP 8104 and a maximum of 6 credit hours in AUSP 8125 may be counted toward meeting the 99 credit hour graduation requirement. Students must achieve a grade of 3.00 or better in AUSP 8104 in their last two semesters in residence. All students must complete an individual research project (AUSP 8121) for a minimum of 4 hours credit. All students must successfully complete a comprehensive examination containing both written and oral components. D. Retention Requirements All students enrolled in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders are expected to attain high academic achievement in all courses taken. In addition to Graduate School policy, the criteria listed below will be used to determine the retention status of students enrolled in the School. Grades of less than 2.00 in a required course are considered unacceptable. These courses must be repeated with a minimum grade of 2.00 in order to meet graduation requirements. A student may count two grades of 2.00 toward their degree. Students have the option of repeating two courses in which a grade of 2.00 or less was earned. The student will be dismissed at the end of the semester in which a third grade of 2.00 or less has been earned. Students are expected to maintain a cumulative grade point average of 3.00 at the end of each semester of enrollment at the University of Memphis. A GPA below 3.00 across two consecutive semesters may be grounds for dismissal. Students may be dismissed for any of the following: Failure to maintain appropriate standards of academic integrity or CSD Policies. Failure to follow the ASHA and AAA Codes of Ethics. Failure to follow HIPAA guidelines. A grade of less than 2.00 in clinic practicum will mandate a review within the School and may be grounds for dismissal. E. Externship in Audiology All students will complete an externship during the fourth year of the program, which is consistent with current accreditation requirements. To be eligible for the externship the student must have completed all academic coursework, including the research project, and successfully passed the comprehensive examination. Externship placement may be obtained through a national matching program or in coordination with the Director of Clinical Services in Audiology. Successful completion of the externship must include the approval of the Director of Clinical Services in Audiology and the Director of Graduate Studies. The externship is to provide a comprehensive training environment for students to expand and sharpen their clinical skills. Externships may be in either paid or unpaid positions. F. Specific Requirements AuD Degree Requirements (99 hours): Basic Science Coursework (18 Hours): AUSP 8001 Hearing Science (3) AUSP 8007 Communicative Interaction (3) AUSP 8008 Acoustic and Perceptual Phonetics (3) AUSP 8012 Measurement Techniques (3) AUSP 8019 Anatomy and Physiology of the Auditory System I (3) AUSP 8020 Anatomy and Physiology of the Auditory System II (3) Major Area Coursework (48 Hours): AUSP 8101 Audiological Concepts (3) AUSP 8103 Diagnostic and Medical Audiology (3) AUSP 8105 Vestibular Assessment and Rehabilitation (3) AUSP 8107 Cochlear Implants (3) AUSP 8110 Gerald A. Studebaker Lectures (3) AUSP 8113 Rehabilitative Audiology I (3) AUSP 8114 Introduction to Hearing Aids (3) AUSP 8115 Pediatric Audiology (3) AUSP 8116 Hearing Aid Provision (3) AUSP 8118 Electrophysiologic Assessment of the Auditory System (3) AUSP 8119 Hearing Conservation (2) AUSP 8121 Individual Projects in Audiology (3) AUSP 8127 Rehabilitative Audiology II (3) AUSP 8128 Evidence-Based Practice in Amplification (3) AUSP 8129 Psychosocial Adjustment to Hearing Impairment (3) Elective (3) Clinical Practicum (30 Hours): AUSP 8104 Clinical Experience in Audiology (24) AUSP 8125 Clinical Externship in Audiology (6) Additional Requirement (3 Hours): Statistics (3) V. PhD Program A. Program Admission All applications are reviewed by the admissions committee. Students should have a GPA of at least 3.5 (on a 4 point scale). GRE scores are required (General Test). Regular application review is initiated three times a year for applications completed by February 1, June 1, or October 1. Decisions about financial assistance are typically made each year shortly after the February 1 deadline. Decisions about financial assistance through research grants, however, can be made for applications received at any time. Applicants should submit recommendations from at least three individuals familiar with the applicant's academic background and aptitude for PhD work in Audiology or Speech-Language Pathology. The letters should specify in detail the applicant's capabilities for PhD study. Applicants also need to submit a resume/vita describing all educational and work experience and a letter describing research interests and professional goals. In addition, applicants must have an interview with U of M faculty in the student's major area of concentration. Most applicants will have a master's or AuD degree upon admission but this is not a requirement. Students are expected to be proficient in understanding and using English. B. Graduation Requirements For students entering with a bachelor’s degree, a minimum of 81 graduate hours, not including dissertation, is required for the PhD degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders. For students who have completed a master’s degree in Audiology or Speech-Language Pathology, a minimum of 57 graduate hours, not including dissertation, will be required for the PhD degree. For students who have completed a master's degree in a field related to Audiology or Speech-Language Pathology, a minimum of 69 graduate hours, not including dissertation, will be required for the PhD degree. For students who have completed an AuD degree, a minimum of 33 hours, not including dissertation, will be required for the PhD degree. 5. A minimum of 9 hours is required for the dissertation. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write the dissertation. Additional coursework, beyond the minimum, may be required at the discretion of the advising committee. Course credit for clinical practicum may not be counted toward the PhD degree. Areas of Concentration: Two areas of concentration are offered, (1) Audiology and (2) Speech-Language Pathology. A minimum of 24 credit hours must be taken in the student’s area of concentration and at least 21 of these hours must be within the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. This requirement is waived for post-AuD students in the Audiology concentration. Core Requirements are designed to ensure that all PhD students will acquire knowledge of the acoustic phonetic structure of speech signals, speech acoustics, professional issues, and the neuroanatomy/neurophysiology related to communication sciences and disorders : All PhD students are required to complete the following: AUSP 8008—Acoustic and Perceptual Phonetics AUSP 8021—Professional Preparation for Scientists (minimum 3 credit hours) AUSP 8010—Neurological Bases of Communication OR AUSP 8020 Anatomy/Physiology of the Auditory System II Research Tool—15 credit hours, of which 9 hours must be in statistics and/or research design. Other courses may include those in instrumentation, grant preparation, and computer technology. Collateral Area: A minimum of 9 semester hours will be required from a collateral area. A collateral area is defined as a combination of courses based on substantive commonality. This collateral coursework must be taken outside the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. The collateral area requirement is waived for a student entering with a master's degree in a field related to Audiology or Speech-Language Pathology. Pre-Candidacy Research Project: All PhD students will be required to satisfactorily complete a data-based research project prior to candidacy. Students will submit an approved written version of the completed project to the academic advisor and orally present the completed project to a departmental colloquium. Additional Requirements All PhD students are expected to be active in research collaboratively with members of the School faculty each semester they are enrolled. Students may be permitted to complete the requirements for clinical certification with the approval of their planning committee. Continuation in the program is contingent upon a satisfactory annual review. C. General Program Requirements Advisors: Upon admission each student will be assigned an advisor by the Director of Graduate Studies in consultation with the student. This advisor will serve as the chair of the student's planning committee. The advisor shall be a full member of the graduate faculty of The University of Memphis. Planning Committee : The planning committee's charge is to evaluate the student's academic needs and assist in the planning of the student's academic program. Students who have completed a master’s or AuD degree will be assessed for currency of knowledge in their concentration to assist in the planning of their academic program. This requirement will not apply to those students who have completed a master’s or AuD degree within the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. The academic program will be tailored to accommodate the individual student's academic interests, background, and professional goals. Within the concentration area, each student will identify an area of special focus. The committee will recommend to the Graduate School those courses, if any, to be transferred toward the PhD, provided that the credit meets general university requirements. The committee, all of whom must be members of the graduate faculty, shall number no less than three, at least two of whom shall be from the student's area of concentration. The student, in conjunction with the committee, will develop a final academic plan to be in written form and filed in the dean's office. This plan is to be signed by each member of the committee and the PhD student. The plan must be filed no later than the middle of the second semester. The student or a planning committee member may propose changes after the plan has been filed. However, any resulting change in the student's plan will require written approval of the committee and the PhD student. D. Retention Requirements All students enrolled in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders are expected to attain high academic achievement in all courses taken. In addition to Graduate School policy the criteria listed below will be used to determine the retention status of students enrolled in the School. Grades of less than 2.00 in a required course are considered unacceptable and must be repeated in order to meet graduation requirements. Students must maintain a cumulative grade point average of 3.00 at the end of each semester of enrollment in all coursework at the University of Memphis. Any student not meeting these conditions will be placed on academic probation by the School. Any student who is placed on academic probation for a third time during his/her academic program will be dismissed before enrolling in another semester. Students have the option of repeating two courses in which a grade of 2.00 or less was earned. After exhausting this option, students are permitted to count only two grades of 2.00 toward graduation. A student will be dismissed at the end of the semester in which a third grade of 2.00 or less is earned. E. Comprehensive Examination Committee The comprehensive examination committee will consist of members selected by the student in conjunction with the advisor and the planning committee. The committee will be made up of at least three members from the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders and one from an academic unit outside the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. F. Comprehensive Examination The comprehensive examination will consist of a written and oral examination. The written examination will typically entail 24 hours of writing within a 10-day period, though up to 6 hours may be completed in an alternative manner (e.g., practical laboratory examination or scholarly paper). The purpose of the comprehensive examination is to determine adequate knowledge of the field (AUD or SLP), research tools, the collateral area, and mastery of the area of special focus. Examiners will consider the student’s ability to synthesize, integrate, and critique information and ideas. Although there will usually be a relationship between doctoral coursework and the comprehensive examination, the examination is not restricted to course content. The oral examination date shall be within three weeks of the conclusion of the written examination regardless of the student's performance on the written examination. The oral examination is a supplement to the written examination and is intended to ensure that the goals of the comprehensive examination have been met. All of the faculty committee members from within the School and at least one from outside the School must be present at the oral examination. The comprehensive examination may be taken upon completion of the PhD student's academic plan or within the last semester of completing his or her academic requirements. This examination will be administered any time within the specified semester subject to the discretion of the comprehensive committee. The committee shall determine the student’s status relative to the comprehensive examination after the oral examination. No more than one dissenting vote may be cast for a student to pass. The committee has the authority to specify further stipulations aimed at remedying any deficiencies reflected in the student's comprehensive examination including retaking the entire written and oral examination, enrolling for additional coursework, and preparing one or more scholarly papers. The committee chair shall file in the dean's office a decision in writing concerning the student's comprehensive examination within two weeks after the oral examination. G. Candidacy After completion of all academic requirements and successful completion of the comprehensive examination, a PhD student may apply for candidacy. H. Dissertation Committee The dissertation committee will consist of a minimum of four faculty members selected by the student in consultation with the dissertation advisor. At least half of the members must be from the School and at least one member must be from a department outside the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. The chairperson of the dissertation committee must be from the School and must be a full member of the graduate faculty. I. Dissertation The student will develop a prospectus in conjunction with the dissertation committee chairman. The prospectus will be reviewed for approval by the committee. After approval the student will conduct the work set forth in the prospectus. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. The completed dissertation will be defended by the student. The oral defense will be open to the University community, with voting on the acceptability of the defense restricted to dissertation committee members. All members of the committee must be present at the dissertation defense. An affirmative decision will be based on the unanimous decision of the examining committee. After successful defense, any required revision, retyping, and resubmission of the dissertation to the committee chair must be completed prior to the awarding of the degree. J. Completion of both Research (PhD) and Professional (MA or AuD) Programs Students applying to the PhD program may also wish to meet the academic and practicum requirements for a professional degree in either Speech-Language Pathology or Audiology. PhD applicants may request consideration of a combined degree plan in consultation with prospective mentors. PhD admission requirements must be met as stated in Section V.A. above. Combined degree plans require approval by the PhD admissions committee as well as the clinical admissions committee. For MA-PhD students, all degree requirements for both programs remain in effect as specified in Sections II and V above, and for AuD-PhD students, all degree requirements for both programs remain in effect as specified in Sections IV and V above. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .