#http://www.memphis.edu/csd/about/strategicplan.php
Strategic Plan - School of Communication Sciences and Disorders - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Student Organizations Resources News About Dean's Message History of the School Mission Statement Strategic Plan Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Strategic Plan Strategic Plan Strategic Plan of the University of Memphis As the University of Memphis prepares to celebrate its 100th anniversary, its strategic plan will set the course for the future. The University's Strategic Plan can be viewed here . Strategic Plan of the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Strategic Goals and Objectives School of Communication Sciences and Disorders (formerly School of Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology) Adopted, 2010 GOAL 1 : Provide distinctive learning experiences for students that ensure current knowledge and skills in the academic field of communication sciences and disorders and in the professions to meet national certification and state licensure requirements by the time of graduation and that foster lifelong success in the field. Objectives: To provide distinctive learning for each student, clinical experiences, academic coursework, and research projects to create individualized opportunities, while providing a broad professional knowledge base. To provide students with the tools to maintain currency of knowledge throughout their professional careers. Strategies and Tactics: Recruit, admit, support, and retain graduate students with the highest academic qualities. Facilitate the pursuit of knowledge through establishment of entities such as colloquia and journal clubs. Periodically review the principles and challenges of ethical practice in the professions. Establish ongoing partnerships among members of the academic and clinical faculty to meld the clinical and academic education. Provide opportunities for student participation in faculty research and scholarly pursuits. Provide opportunities for post graduate educational opportunities. Provide intensive mentorship possibilities in research for students whose career goals are in the academic domain. GOAL 2 : Ensure that the School maintains a sufficient number of faculty who bring broad and diverse perspectives to enhance the programs, and to contribute to the continued health of the academic discipline of communication sciences and disorders. Objectives: To maintain a faculty with teaching expertise across the scope of practice of the professions. To foster and maintain a faculty with diverse research interests, who are nationally and internationally prominent in the field. To enhance currency of knowledge and skills, the faculty are encouraged and supported (a) to engage in continuing education, scholarly activities, and research, and (b) to take leadership roles in local, state, national, and international organizations. To obtain and maintain extramural funding to support research and training of students working toward the MA, AuD, or PhD. Strategies and Tactics: Proactively anticipate faculty retirements, and develop a plan to replace retiring faculty. Provide financial support and professional leave to participate in research activities, continuing education, and professional service. Monitor new areas of clinical or research focus to ensure that faculty interests reflect current areas of emphasis within the professions and academic disciplines. Provide incentives to secure external funding for research and academic training. Identify and encourage faculty to seek workshops and instruction with regard to grant writing. Encourage senior faculty who have been successful in obtaining funding for research to serve as mentors to junior faculty. GOAL 3 : Promote and sustain a culture of acceptance, diversity and community among the students, faculty, staff and clients. Objectives: To increase enrollment and maintain our high student retention rate. To increase diversity among the students, faculty, staff, and clients. Strategies and Tactics: Actively recruit high-quality students nationally and internationally. Provide an academic environment that attracts students from diverse academic backgrounds and underrepresented populations. Respect regional and cultural diversity of the students, faculty, staff and clients. GOAL 4 : Ensure that the School meets the speech, language and hearing needs of the community, and that its faculties collaborate within the University and the scientific community. Objectives: To advocate and provide services for individuals in the community with speech, language and/or hearing needs. To promote a collaborative environment with local professionals. To provide local professionals with opportunities to enhance their knowledge and skills. To maintain an active presence in the national and international academic community of communication sciences and disorders. Strategies and Tactics: Maintain faculty who are adequate in number and sufficiently broad in perspective to meet the diverse needs of the community. Maintain and develop innovative clinical programs through the School's Memphis Speech and Hearing Center to meet the varied needs of the community, including the provision of bilingual clinical services in Spanish. Provide continuing education opportunities for the community. Provide a source of expertise to the University and the community. GOAL 5 : Ensure all entities, faculty, staff and students, have a role in the guidance of the School. Objectives: To ensure a culture of shared commitment to the planning and future development of the School. To allocate the School's fiscal resources to reflect the goals and priorities established by the School's administration with input from the appropriate School committees. Strategies and Tactics: Promote the growth and development of individuals within the School to create a culture of collegiality and commitment to the long term stability of the School. Adhere to, periodically review, and update the School's bylaws. GOAL 6 : Ensure that facilities are inviting and adequate to meet current and future programmatic needs. Objectives: To provide adequate facilities for current activities as well as future growth of the program. To consolidate major activities of the program within a single location. Strategies and Tactics: Improve the esthetics of the current facilities. Continue development of plans for new facilities on Park Avenue Campus. Continue to foster a student and faculty sense of community. About Dean's Message History of the School Mission Statement Strategic Plan Apply Now Want to pursue a degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders? Find out how to apply. Support the School Help support the School with the funding of various initiatives. Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Learn about our in-house clinical training facility. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .