#https://elearn.memphis.edu/shared/Documentation/10.3/Instructor/Instructor_documentation_en_13-11-19/documentation.desire2learn.com/en//print/book/export/html/287.html
Published on Desire2Learn Resource Center ( ) Home &gt; Quizzes &gt; Using Quizzes &gt; Creating quizzes Creating quizzes Creating a quiz involves a series of steps. After you name a quiz, you can access its tab menus to define its general properties, restrictions, assessment, objectives, submission views, and reports setup. Table of contents Create a quiz Understanding quiz properties Understanding quiz restrictions Understanding quiz assessment Understanding quiz objectives Understanding quiz submission views Understanding quiz reports setup Create a quiz On the Manage Quizzes page, click New Quiz . Enter a Name . Select a Category from the drop-down list if you want to group your quiz with an existing category. If you haven't set up categories for your quiz, click add category to create and name a new category. See Creating and managing quiz categories [1] for more information. Click Save and Close . Understanding quiz properties General When you create and name your quiz, you can add it to a category, associate it with a grade item, attach rubric criteria, and allow users to include it in their ePortfolio. The following options are available in general properties: Category   Group your quiz under an existing category or create a new category. Categories are useful for organizing quizzes with similar or related content. Quiz Questions Click Add/Edit Questions to create quiz questions. Select quiz questions from the Quiz Layout area to preview a question. You can click Edit Values to modify points value, difficulty level, bonus questions, and mandatory questions. Click Add/Edit Questions to create new questions, sections, information, and to manage other question properties. Note You can edit values and preview questions through Add/Edit Questions . Once you add questions to your quiz, you can enter a value in the Questions per page field to indicate how many questions to display per page. Limiting the amount of questions available at a time is less overwhelming than placing an entire quiz on one page. You can also choose to prevent users from moving backwards through pages once they have left a page of questions. Optional Advanced Properties The following options are available in optional advanced properties: Hints   Allows users to access hints to questions.  Notification Email   The email address or comma-separated list of email addresses specified in this field receive a message each time a user completes a quiz attempt. Disable Right-Click   (Ctrl-click on a Mac) prohibits users from printing quiz questions by right-clicking on a question when taking a quiz. Note This option is not compatible with Macs when using Internet Explorer or Safari. Disable Page Access   Users cannot access the Pager tool if they have a quiz attempt in progress. Messages Change description and introduction visibility by selecting on or off . Description   Create a description for a quiz that is not yet available to users. Introduction   Display a message to users at the start of a quiz. This will display at the top of a quiz before the first question. Page Header/Footer Add information or instructions to the top or bottom of the quiz page. Change page header and footer visibility by selecting on or off . Understanding quiz restrictions Dates and Restrictions Changing your quiz status to Active allows users to see and take the quiz. You can specify a date range that your quiz becomes available to users. You can also add quizzes associated with a date to your course calendar. Create new, or attach existing release conditions if you want a quiz to be available to users only after they fulfill other specified tasks. Examples of release conditions include completing a dropbox submission; scoring a specified grade in a particular quiz; completing a survey; and being enrolled in a particular section. You can edit and change release conditions by clicking the Remove icon or Remove All Conditions . Security Options If your organization purchases the Respondus LockDown Browser you will see two additional options on the Restrictions tab: Respondus LockDown Browser: Required to take this quiz  Forces users to use the LockDown Browser when writing the quiz. The user cannot start the quiz unless they are using the browser. Respondus LockDown Browser: Required to view quiz feedback and results  Restricts users from viewing quiz feedback or results unless they are using the browser. This option makes it difficult for users to print quiz results and make them available to others. If you select one or both of these options, users will see a Download Respondus LockDown Browser link when they try to navigate to locked pages. Users can click the link to download a free copy of the browser. Optional Advanced Restrictions Password   To access a quiz, users must enter the same password you input here. IP Restriction   Users can only access a quiz from the IP address you specify here. Leave fields blank to allow multiple IP address access points. Timing Time Limit   Enter a time limit for your quiz and select to enforce time and show clock. 120 minutes is the default time limit. Grace Period   Enter a grace period to allow users to submit their quiz without a late flag after the quiz time limit expires. Late Submissions   Select a penalty type for late submissions. You can select to have a late flag and no points deduction with Allow normal submission , set Late Limit minutes to give users a late grace period before receiving an auto-grade of 0, or select Auto-Submit Attempt to have the system automatically prompt users to submit their quiz attempt and block them from saving further progress after the specified time limit and grace period expire. Notes You must set an enforced time limit to apply either Late Limit minutes or Auto-Submit Attempt. When using Late Limit minutes, you can manually change the auto-grade of 0 if you feel the user deserves a different grade. Advanced Availability You can search and assign specific users a different set of quiz availability dates and late submission properties. Special access properties enable you to increase the time limit for special-needs users and allow different start and end dates for individual users. Click Add Users to Special Access to create special access to a quiz. After you finish modifying special access properties and users permissions, click Add Special Access . When you return to the Advanced Availability section of the Restrictions tab, you can select Allow only users with special access to see this quiz to prevent other users from accessing the survey. Understanding quiz assessment Assessment Grade Item When associated with a quiz, you have the option to auto export quiz results to the Grades tool. Auto Export to Grades The system can send auto-graded attempt scores directly to the grade book if a quiz is associated with a grade item. Student View Preview If you associate the quiz with a grade item, you can click Edit Display Settings from the Student View Preview context menu to edit how grades display to students. Rubrics Add a rubric to a quiz if you want to evaluate users with a predefined set of criteria. You can associate a rubric with a quiz to demonstrate fair and consistent evaluation. Automatic Grade Users can see quiz grade immediately after completion and submission. Note The ability to display an automatic grade is limited by questions that cannot be auto-graded. ePortfolio Artifacts Users can add the submission view of a quiz as an artifact to their ePortfolio. Attempts You can allow users one or more quiz attempts and calculate a grade based on their highest attempt, lowest attempt, first attempt, last attempt, or average of all attempts. Advanced Attempt Conditions Enter a maximum or minimum percentage achievement requirement for each quiz attempt to restrict access and determine qualification for another attempt. Understanding quiz objectives Associate a quiz with a set of learning objectives and a competency that you want users to master. See Associating quizzes with learning objectives [2] for more information. Understanding quiz submission views Default view A default quiz submission view will appear to users after each quiz attempt submission. Additional view You can edit the default view or create and select a customized view. Create an additional view Click Add Additional View to create a new submission view. View Properties Name your view and enter a message that will display to users after each submission. View Restrictions Set a date and time to determine when users will see the submission view. By default, users will see the submission view immediately after a quiz submission. Select the IP Restriction check box to determine where users are allowed to view their quiz submissions. IP address restrictions reflect the same IP restrictions set in the Restrictions tab's Optional Advanced Restrictions. You can edit the default view or create and select a customized view. You can also choose to display a submission view after users complete a specified quiz attempt and/or achieve a required score. You can select the Limited Duration check box and enter a time in minutes to indicate how long users can view a quiz submission. View Details You can customize and display questions, responses, question answers, scores, and statistics to users in the submission view. Click Save . Understanding quiz reports setup Use quiz reports to gather information on user performance. Quiz reports are different from quiz statistics; they collect and present more types of information than is available through statistics. Choose a report type to display question statistics, question details, users statistics, attempt details, or user attempts. You can also select a release date and choose which roles have permission to view each report. Create a report Click Add Report . Enter a Report Name . Select Report Type : Question Statistics  Displays class average, score distribution, includes bonus questions, and the Out Of value for each question. Question Details  Displays question difficulty levels, text responses, includes bonus questions, and shows all private comments. User Statistics  Displays class average, score distribution, and Org Defined ID. Attempt Details  Displays Org Defined ID and duration of quiz attempt. User Attempts  Displays Org Defined ID. You can choose to immediately release report after a quiz submission, or enter an alternate date and time. In the Release Report To area, select the check boxes next to the roles you want to release the report to. Click Save Report . See also Creating and managing quiz categories [1] Associating quizzes with learning objectives [2] Audience: Instructor [3] Source URL: Links: [1] [2] [3]