#http://www.memphis.edu/law/career-services/cso-student-services.php
CSO student services - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Career Services Student Resources &amp; Services Services Symplicity Guide Career Pathways Clerkships Pro Bono On Campus Interviews 1L CSO Orientation Job Fairs Job Postings Alumni Resources &amp; Services Services Reciprocity Symplicity Esq.Build Get Involved Employer Resources Posting a Job On Campus Recruiting Resume Collection Program Increasing Your Visibility Employment Statistics Home School of Law Career Services CSO student services STUDENT SERVICES The Memphis Law CSO offers you a wide range of career development services, including: Individual Counseling You can set up one-on-one counseling appointments to review resumes and cover letters and to talk about career goals. If you do not have time for a meeting, you can drop off or email a resume or cover letter to lawcareerservices@memphis.edu . The materials will be critiqued and returned within approximately two days. You are encouraged to schedule a career counseling session at least once during each year of your law school tenure. You may drop by the office or send an email to lawcareerservices@memphis.edu to schedule an appointment. Due to National Association for Law Placement (NALP) regulations, you may not schedule an individual counseling session until after November 1 of your first year at Memphis Law. However, you may attend all of our programs. This regulation was designed to allow you to become acclimated to law school and comfortable with your studies. Mock Interview Training Mock interviews provide you with the opportunity to practice your interview skills in a realistic setting and to receive feedback to improve your performance. We hold mock interviews before on-campus employer interviews at the beginning of each semester. Local attorneys conduct the mock interviews. Interview sessions typically last 30 minutes and include feedback from the participating attorneys at the end of the session. The attorneys who participate in our mock interviews are often the same attorneys who conduct on-campus interviews. Seminars and Events We present many events throughout the year to familiarize you with basics such as writing resumes, and to expose you to a variety of practice areas. Panel discussions, career fairs, and other CSO events bring attorneys and students together to explore career possibilities. Recent programs have included: "Eat, Drink and Be Hired" covered dinner and professional etiquette to assist students in preparation for lunch interviews and cocktail receptions. Students learned everything from tipping the valet to working a crowd. "Resume/Cover Letter 101" focused on do's and don'ts in cover letter and resume writing. "Handling Callback Interviews" helped students understand callback interviews and offers of employment. "Beyond OCI"addressed common misconceptions about the legal job market, including the misconception that most entry-level positions (including summer associate positions) are obtained through on-campus interviews. The program gave students some starting points to search for jobs outside the four walls of law school. "A Day In the Life Series," co-sponsored by the Memphis Bar Association, is an ongoing series of programs featuring local attorneys offering insight into what it is like to practice in a variety of different settings including non-traditional careers in law. You may sign up for events through Symplicity . Resource Center The CSO library contains career books, interview guides, lists of Tennessee law firms broken down by city, and other helpful publications. The Career Services Manual can be found in the Documents Library of Symplicity . This manual is a go-to resource with career planning ideas as well as several templates for resumes, cover letters, and the like. The CSO also contains a work area with computers and a laser printer that may be used by students and alumni for the exclusive purpose of preparing resumes, cover letters, and other correspondence related to their job search. You may use our fax machine for sending and receiving employment-related correspondence. Job Postings All employment positions are posted using Symplicity. You can find out detailed information about the postings in Symplicity where you will also be able to create PDF versions of your resume, cover letter and transcript and store these documents on the system. On-campus interviews are managed through Symplicity. Memphis Law is also a PSLawNet subscriber. If you are primarily interested in public interest or government positions, PSLawNet gives you an opportunity to access thousands of domestic and international opportunities on the PSLawNet database . The website contains information on more than 10,000 public sector organizations. You must register to access the data, but registration is simple and free. On Campus Recruiting We coordinate on-campus job interviews in the fall and spring semesters. Career Services Student Resources &amp; Services Services Symplicity Guide Career Pathways Clerkships Pro Bono On Campus Interviews 1L CSO Orientation Job Fairs Job Postings Alumni Resources &amp; Services Services Reciprocity Symplicity Esq.Build Get Involved Employer Resources Posting a Job On Campus Recruiting Resume Collection Program Increasing Your Visibility Employment Statistics Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .