#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/people/
People - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources People Faculty Frank Andrasik Karen Linville Baker J. Gayle Beck Kristoffer S. Berlin Jeffrey S. Berman Cheryl Bowers Jason L. G. Braasch Robert Cohen Melloni N. Cook William O. Dwyer Thomas K. Fagan Randy G. Floyd Arthur C. Graesser David A. Houston Kathryn H. Howell Xiangen Hu Stephanie Huette Xu Jiang Roger J. Kreuz Deranda Lester Brook A. Marcks Meghan McDevitt-Murphy Elizabeth B. Meisinger Andrew W. Meyers James G. Murphy Robert A. Neimeyer Andrew M. Olney Philip I. Pavlik Jr. Leslie A. Robinson M. David Rudd Helen J. K. Sable Idia B. Thurston James P. Whelan William H. Zachry Staff Staff Personnel Home Department of Psychology People Frank Andrasik, Ph.D. Distinguished Professor and Chair Department of Psychology 400 Innovation Drive University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Voice: 901.678.2146 Fax: 901.678.2579 fndrasik@memphis.edu curriculum vitae Dr. Andrasik received his doctorate in Clinical Psychology from Ohio University in 1979, after completing an Internship at the Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, under the direction of Drs. Michel Hersen and Samuel M. Turner. He then joined the Psychology Faculty of the State University of New York at Albany (beginning as an Assistant Professor and then promoted to Associate Professor), where he also held the positions of Research Associate Professor in the Department of Neurology and Adjunct Associate Professor in the Department of Family Practice at Albany Medical College. At SUNYA he assisted in establishing and co-directing a clinical research unit, the Stress Disorders Clinic, which investigated both pharmacological and nonpharmacological approaches to varied stress and pain problems. This unit was housed within the Center for Stress and Anxiety disorders, directed by Drs. Edward B. Blanchard and David H. Barlow. Upon departing SUNYA, he served as Associate Director for Pain Therapy Centers in Greenville, SC, where he managed multidisciplinary pain treatment programs at various hospital sites. His next academic appointment was in the Department of Psychology at the University of West Florida, where he began as a Full Professor, and subsequently was bestowed the title of Distinguished University Professor and appointed as a Senior Research Scientist at the Florida Institute for Human and Machine Cognition. He presently serves as a Distinguished Professor, Chair, and Director, Center for Behavioral Medicine, Department of Psychology, University of Memphis, TN. Dr. Andrasik has published approximately 270 articles and chapters and has delivered numerous presentations in the US and abroad (Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, England, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Mexico, Norway, Spain, Turkey, &amp; UAE). His work has focused on a variety of topics within the area of behavioral medicine, chiefly chronic pain, headache, and stress disorders, basic and applied psychophysiology, and more recently polytrauma in military populations. He has co-authored or co-edited several texts for professionals (one of which was translated into German and Spanish, with a two-volume set translated into Korean). His most recent text was published in early 2015, entitled Biopsychosocial Assessment in Clinical Health Psychology: A Handbook , co-edited with J.L. Goodie and A.L. Peterson. The 4th edition of his coedited text with M.S. Schwartz (as senior editor), entitled Biofeedback: A Practitioner’s Guide , is scheduled to appear late 2015/early 2016. Dr. Andrasik has been the recipient of multiple federal and foundation research grants, including a Research Career Development Award from the National Institute of Neurological Communicative Disorders and Stroke (now NINDS) at the start of his career (serving as PI or Co-PI for grants totaling approximately $5 million to date). He has participated as an external reviewer in the grant review process at a number of agencies (NIH, NIMH, NASA, NATO, USAMRMC, etc.), serving as a member of the Risk, Prevention and Health Behavior Study Section (formerly known as the Behavioral Medicine Study Section). He was the 1990 recipient of The University of West Florida's Distinguished Research and Creative Activity Award, the 1992 recipient of the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback's Merit Award for Long-Term Research and/or Clinical Achievements, the 2002 recipient of AAPB’s Distinguished Scientist Award, and the 2006 recipient of The University of West Florida’s University Scholarly and Creative Activities Award. Dr. Andrasik has considerable journal editing experience, currently serving as Editor-in-Chief for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback (formerly Biofeedback and Self-Regulation ) since 1995 and Associate Editor for Cephalalgia since 2013. In the past he served as Editor-in-Chief for Behavior Therapy , Associate Editor for Behavior Therapy and Biofeedback and Self-Regulation , and a member of the editorial board for other leading behavioral journals. He continues as a board member for several journals and regularly reviews for others. He belongs to a number of professional societies, holding the status of Fellow in 2 divisions of the American Psychological Association (Division of Health Psychology and Society of Clinical Psychology), the Association for Psychological Science, and the Society of Behavioral Medicine. He has twice served as President for scientific societies: President of the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback (AAPB) in 1993-1994 and of the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies (ABCT) in 2009-2010. He previously served as Secretary/Treasurer for ABCT, as a member of the Board of Directors for AAPB (formerly Biofeedback Society of America), and chaired the Task Force on Biofeedback Treatment of Tension Headache for this same organization. He has served as Program Chair for 3 national societies: Association for Advancement of Behavior Therapynow ABCT; Division 38, Health Psychology, American Psychological Association; and AAPB. He recently completed a term on the Board of the Council of Graduate Departments of Psychology (COGDOP). Dr. Andrasik has consulted in a behavioral management capacity to a number of human service agencies (mental health, pediatrics, police selection, forensics, military, and intellectual/developmental disabilities). Finally, Dr. Andrasik remains active clinically. He is licensed as a psychologist (Florida), is listed in the National Register of Health Service Providers in Psychology, is certified by the Biofeedback Certification International Alliance (formerly the Biofeedback Certification Institute of America), has maintained a private practice since 1982, and regularly consults to various agencies. People Faculty Frank Andrasik Karen Linville Baker J. Gayle Beck Kristoffer S. Berlin Jeffrey S. Berman Cheryl Bowers Jason L. G. Braasch Robert Cohen Melloni N. Cook William O. Dwyer Thomas K. Fagan Randy G. Floyd Arthur C. Graesser David A. Houston Kathryn H. Howell Xiangen Hu Stephanie Huette Xu Jiang Roger J. Kreuz Deranda Lester Brook A. Marcks Meghan McDevitt-Murphy Elizabeth B. Meisinger Andrew W. Meyers James G. Murphy Robert A. Neimeyer Andrew M. Olney Philip I. Pavlik Jr. Leslie A. Robinson M. David Rudd Helen J. K. Sable Idia B. Thurston James P. Whelan William H. Zachry Staff Staff Personnel Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .