#http://www.memphis.edu/financialaid/graduate/aidprog2.php
Financial Aid Programs - Financial Aid - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Law Scholarships Student Employment Graduate When to Apply How to Apply Aid Programs Eligibility Study Abroad Grad Certificate Program Teachers Certificate Program Home Financial Aid Graduate Financial Aid Programs Aid Programs - Graduate Students Once financial aid eligibility is determined, the Financial Aid Office offers students a Financial Aid Package which is posted on their myMemphis account. It consists mainly of student loans to meet as much of the student's need as possible. Enrolled hours, residency classification, cumulative grade point average, and other financial assistance already received or expected will affect the amount and type of financial aid students can receive to meet their financial need. Loans Note: Effective 7/1/2012, Subsidized Stafford Loans are no longer available to graduate/professional students. Unsubsidized Stafford Loan A variable interest loan available to degree seeking students enrolled at least half-time, not based on financial need. The interest rate changes every July 1st and will be charged from the time the loan is disbursed until it is paid in full. The interest can be paid while the student is still in school. Repayment of principal and interest begins 6 months after enrollment ceases to be at least half-time. The current interest rate on this loan is 5.84% . MAXIMUM LOAN LIMITS for an ACADEMIC YEAR: Graduate Academic Year Loan Limits Total Unsub Loan $20,500 Graduate Aggregate Loan Limits Base Loan Base + Extended $65,500 $138,500 NOTE : Borrowing the maximum amount for Fall and Spring leaves zero eligibility for Summer. Your total financial aid, including Federal Direct Loans, cannot exceed your cost of attendance or "budget" (as determined by the institution). The aggregate lifetime limit includes the total amount of undergraduate loans borrowed. Loans are awarded per academic year and students are not eligible to receive more than half a year's limit in one semester. For example, a graduate student may not receive more than $10,250 in Loans (half of $20,500) during one semester. Monitor your loan history on the National Student Loan Data System here . Graduate PLUS Loan A supplemental loan made available to graduate or professional students who need to borrow more than the maximum unsubsidized loan amounts to meet educational costs that are not covered by other financial aid. Students interested in this loan must complete the FAFSA and must be enrolled at least half time in a graduate or professional program. Students in the teacher certification program do not qualify. The interest rate for the PLUS loan is fixed at 6.84% and a credit check is required. There is no grace period for the Graduate PLUS loan. The Graduate PLUS application must be completed on-line: . Federal Perkins Loan A low-interest loan for degree seeking students with exceptional financial need. This program is federally funded and administered by the university. Priority is given to early applicants with a 3.0 cumulative grade point average (GPA). Repayment begins 9 months after enrollment ceases to be at least half-time. TEACH Grant A grant available to students who intend to teach full time for at least four years in high-need subject areas in a public or private elementary or secondary school that serves students from low income families. This is available to only two majors at the University of Memphis: Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) Degree Program and Master of Science (MS) in Education Degree Program, with a concentration in Reading. Work Programs Federal Work Study and Regular Student Employment For more information, you may view the Student Employment web site. Graduate Assistantship (GA) Work Study A federally funded, need based, university administered program. Priority given to early applicants with financial need (as determined by the FAFSA). Academic department actually awards assistantship. Work study award can be used to fund the stipend amount. Federal government covers 75% while the academic department covers 25% of monthly stipend amount. Must be a U.S. citizen or eligible non-citizen to qualify for this program. Scholarships The Student Financial Aid Office only handles undergraduate scholarship programs. Check Graduate Assistantships and Fellowships at the Graduate School web site for information on what graduate scholarship programs are available at The University of Memphis. Many foundations, corporations, and service organizations provide funds for scholarships or tuition assistance. Students generally apply directly to the potential donor, and usually there is a direct relationship between the student and the sponsoring organization. FastWEB is a searchable database for more than $1 billion in private sector scholarships, fellowships, grants and loans. Alternative Loans Private loans is an option for graduate students who do not show financial aid eligibility for other types of financial aid, or who need additional funds to meet educational expenses. Most private alternative loans require a credit check. Many of these alternative loan programs also look at what financial aid you are already receiving for that particular period. Other financial aid assistance is deducted from the cost of attendance (as determined by the institution) before aid eligibility is determined for other programs. The following link includes the names and contact information of lenders frequently used by students. Partial list of Alternative Loan Lenders NOTE: Our office does NOT endorse any particular lender. This information is only provided for your convenience and can change without notice. You should request current information directly from the lender or company offering the program. IMPORTANT NOTICES: The Federal Tax Reform Act of 1986 significantly changed the tax status of scholarships, fellowships, and grants you receive from the university. Prior to the Act, they were generally not subject to income tax. Since then scholarship, fellowship, and grant amounts exceeding tuition, fees, and course-related books, supplies, and equipment have become taxable. Financial assistance received from other sources includes vocational rehabilitation benefits, veteran's benefits, outside scholarships, employee fee waivers, teacher/child tuition discounts, graduate assistant fee waivers and any other assistance. All outside aid amounts must be considered in determining total aid eligibility. Graduate When to Apply How to Apply Aid Programs Eligibility Study Abroad Grad Certificate Program Teachers Certificate Program Financial Aid Forms Check your myMemphis account for missing documents. Financial Aid Checklist Some things you need to know to receive financial aid Frequently Asked Questions Some of the most common financial aid questions Links of Interest Some important links to get you started Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/11/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .