#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/about/faq.php
FAQs - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About About Board of Directors Meet the Staff Contact Us Mission &amp; Vision FAQs Manuals &amp; Forms Awards of Excellence Home UMAA About FAQs Frequently Asked Questions I joined the Alumni Association, but I have not received my membership card yet. How long does it usually take? It usually takes about 5-7 business days to receive your membership packet. If you need a membership card before that time, you can stop by the Alumni Center, located at 635 Normal Street, during business hours (Monday-Friday, 8:00 am-4:30 pm) to pick up a temporary membership card. If you have not received it after 7 days, please contact our membership analyst at 901-678-2586 to check on the status and confirm that the address we have on file is correct. I just renewed my Alumni Association membership and followed the instructions above, but I do not see the option to enable Email365. Please note: Once you join the Alumni Association, it can take two or more business days for your membership to process in the system. You will not be able to activate your email account until that time. I am unable to access my @memphis.edu account. How do I fix this? Access to an @memphis.edu email account is for faculty, staff, students and Alumni Association members only. This benefit for Association members is referred to as Email365. Not a member? JOIN NOW then click here for information on how to set up your Email365 account. (Please note: It can take two or more business days for your membership to process in the system. You will not be able to activate your email account until that time.) Students will have access to their account for one main term after graduation (Ex: Spring graduates will have access until December). Recent graduates: Because the Alumni Association offers graduates a one-year complimentary Association membership, you will have access to your account until that membership expires. These students do not need to take any initial action to opt-in to Email365. To retain access, you must renew your Association membership. If your membership lapses for any time, you will then need to follow these steps to re-activate your account. One possibility is that your password has expired. The University has enacted a policy that all passwords must be changed every 365 days. To change your password, go to iam.memphis.edu . Select "Forgot Password" and follow the steps to set a new password. If you are unable to remember the answers to your security questions, from iam.memphis.edu select "Initialize Your Account." You will then need to contact the Helpdesk at 901.678.8888 to receive your 10 digit code. Current University of Memphis employees: If you are involuntarily terminated from the University, you will no longer have access to your @memphis.edu email account. Please contact your HR representative regarding this policy. For additional technical problems, please contact the Helpdesk at 901.678.8888. FAM Members: I joined online, how do I get my t-shirt? You will need to pick up your t-shirt at the Alumni Center, located at 635 Normal Street during normal business hours (Monday-Friday, 8:00 am-4:30 pm). Print out your confirmation page to show the person at the front desk. You can also get a temporary membership card at this time if you have not received your permanent membership card. How do I access the Savings Connection and online discount codes? Click here for step-by-step directions For additional questions, please contact the Alumni Association at alumniassociation@memphis.edu or 901.678.2586. About Board of Directors Meet the Staff Contact Us Mission &amp; Vision FAQs Manuals &amp; Forms Awards of Excellence Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .