#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/ccfa/muse.php
MUSE - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions MUSE MUSE (MUSE) MUSIC EDUCATION Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music John Chiego, M.M. Room 123B, Music Building FIELDS OF ENDORSEMENT FOR TEACHING: For students in the Music Education Concentration of the Bachelor of Music in Music degree, endorsement may be obtained in Instrumental/General Music and in Choral/General Music. Normally, a student can expect to be recommended in only one of these areas. Choral Music applicants should be able to play piano accompaniments of moderate difficulty, should possess an adequate solo voice for school music purposes, and should participate in a variety of choral ensembles. Instrumental Music applicants should study one instrument of major emphasis and participate in large instrumental ensembles. Successful completion of a Junior recital is required in both areas. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MUSE 4260-69. Special Topics in Music Education. (1-3). Topics are varied and in online class listings. MUSE 1101 - Class Inst Brass (1) Basic performance skills and teaching techniques on trumpet, trombone, French horn, baritone horn and tuba for those who intend to teach instrumental music in schools. (SP) MUSE 1103 - Class Inst Percussion (1) Basic performance skills and teaching techniques on snare drum, timpani, and keyboard percussion instruments for those who intend to teach instrumental music in schools. (F) MUSE 1104 - Class Inst Woodwinds (1) Basic performance skills and teaching techniques on clarinet, flute, saxophone, oboe, and bassoon for those who intend to teach instrumental music in schools. (SP) MUSE 1112 - Class Inst Voice (1) Fundamentals of vocal production useful for all music teachers. MUSE 1116 - Class Instr Strings (1) Basic performance skills and teaching techniques on violin, viola, cello, or double bass for those who intend to teach instrumental music in schools. (F) MUSE 1119 - Guitar/Music Teacher (1) Basic guitar technique, chording and folk style accompaniments; prepares students for effective teaching in general music classes. MUSE 2002 - Foundations Music Ed (2-3) Development of philosophical foundation for music education professionals; values, attitudes and work habits of the effective teacher will be stressed; field experiences and techniques of observation. MUSE 3101 - Functional Keyboard Skills (1) Functional keyboard harmony and sight reading skills designed for keyboard majors. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 1009, 1011. (SP-odd years) MUSE 3700 - Basic Conducting (2) Development of conducting skills; basic baton principles, rhythmic analysis, expressive techniques, phrasing, and multimetered problems; class meetings require performing as instrumentalist or vocalist as well as conductor. Three class hours per week. (F). PREREQUISITE: MUTC 1009/1011. MUSE 4201 - Individual Study Music Educatn (1-3) Individual study of problems and opportunities faced by person who teaches music in schools; for classroom teachers, music teachers, supervisors, principals, and administrators. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit, but not for the purpose of changing original grade. MUSE 4205 - Marching Band Technique (2) Organizing and conducting marching band; gridiron charting; marching procedures; study of precision drill, formation, pageantry. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MUSE 4208 - Band Literature (3) History and evolution of wind instruments and wind instrument playing and the history and development of the wind band and its literature, with general background material on the specific composers involved. (SP) MUSE 4209 - Piano Tuning/Repair (2) Concentrated study of basic techniques involved in piano tuning and adjustment. Some basic tools required. MUSE 4211 - Vocal Diction I (2) Phonetic study of English and Italian languages in detail; introduction and basic rules of Latin pronunciation; International Phonetic Alphabet transcription of songs and arias. Open to collaborative pianists only or by permission of instructor . (Alternate years) MUSE 4212 - Vocal Diction II (2) Phonetic study of Italian, French, and Spanish in detail, including IPA transcription of songs and arias and class performance. Other languages (Russian, Hebrew, etc.) may be covered as time permits. (Alternate years) MUSE 4213 - Mat/Method/Elementary Music (3) (4203). Philosophy, methods and materials for teaching music classes in secondary schools, grade K-6; demonstration and simulation of classroom teaching at this level. TEP Restricted. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 2002. (F) MUSE 4215 - Jazz Ensemble Technique (1) Jazz phrasing, articulation; ensemble settings; repertoire selection; administration of school jazz program. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MUSE 4251 - Guitar Pedagogy (3) Principles of and materials for teaching classical guitar. MUSE 4260 - Diction for Music Educators (2) Study of the sounds and symbols of the International Phonetic Alphabet for English, Italian, Latin, Frendch, and German. Basic pronunciation rules will be covered for each. Application to singing in both solo and ensemble settings. MUSE 4261 - Student Teaching/Field Exp (5) Focuses on implementing various methodologies, assessing students, classroom management, and classroom discipline in the PreK-12 school and inclusionary settings, depending on licensure area. Prerequisities: Admission to TEP and admissions to the Residency Program. MUSE 4403 - Material/Meth Inst Musc 9-12 (3) Designed to prepare the instrumental music teacher to teach music concepts to intermediate and advanced players in mixed instrumental group settings. Instruction methodologies and materials, objectives, evaluation, motivation, and administration stressed. (F) PREREQUISITE: MUSE 2002 and junior standing in music. MUSE 4405 - Matrl/Method Choral Mus 7-12 (3) Selected materials and methods of practical concern to the vocal-choral music specialist; consideration of music series, scheduling techniques, voice class development, choral publishers, units of study. (F) PREREQUISITE: MUSE 2002 and junior standing in music. COREQUISITE: MUSE 4406. MUSE 4501 - Piano Pedagogy I (2) Training teachers for beginning through intermediate level piano instruction. Establishing strong artistic, musical and technical foundations. (F) PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MUSE 4503 - Piano Pedagogy II (2) Training teachers for advanced piano instruction; extensive readings from renowned artist-teachers and performers; development of ideation and memorization skills; observations and supervised practice teaching. (SP) PREREQUISITE: MUSE 4501 or permission of instructor. MUSE 4505 - Collab Piano Technique (2) Performance class involving practical study of instrumental and vocal standard repertory and the problems of ensemble playing; facility in sight-reading and ability to assimilate music rapidly; score reading, transposition, and figured bass realization introduced as skills necessary to well rounded musicianship. (SP) PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MUSE 4506 - Suzuki String Pedagogy I (3) Required of students who plan to serve as apprentice string teachers in U of M Suzuki Talent Education program. Basic instruction in Suzuki philosophy; participation with parents and children in Suzuki string classes. MUSE 4508 - Prin of Suzuki Piano (3) Suzuki philosophy applied to development of the child's abilities and role of teacher and parent. Students will analyze technical and musical instruction of beginning piano student. (F) PREREQUISITE: upper division piano skills. MUSE 4509 - Suzuki String Pedagogy II (3) Literature and technique taught in Suzuki Violin School; fundamental technique, development of posture, tone and listening ability in beginning students; analysis of pedagogical material. Required of students who plan to serve as apprentice teachers in U of M Suzuki String Program. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 4506. MUSE 4510 - Suzuki String Pedagogy III (3) Literature and technique taught in Suzuki Violin School; emphasis on development of advanced student; laboratory experience in U of M Suzuki String Program. Required of students planning to be apprentice teachers in U of M Suzuki String Program. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 4509. MUSE 4511 - Class Piano Pedagogy (3) Group instruction techniques in teaching of beginning, intermediate, and early advanced piano. Emphasizes observation and practical application. For the piano major and/or prospective piano teacher. (SP - even years) PREREQUISITE: upper division level in keyboard or permission of instructor. MUSE 4513 - Suzuki String Pedagogy IV (3) Analysis of pedagogical materials and techniques introduced in volumes five and six of Suzuki Violin School. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 4509. MUSE 4514 - Brass Pedagogy (3) Examination of current literature, principles, methods and psychology in brass playing and teaching. Students will participate in videotaped teaching assignments which will be used to improve one-to-one teaching skills in the studio setting. (SP - even years) MUSE 4520 - Percussion Pedagogy (3) Basic principles of and materials for teaching percussion instruments. (SP - even years) MUSE 4521 - Woodwind Pedagogy (3) Principles of and materials for teaching flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon, and saxophone. MUSE 4523 - Vocal Pedagogy (2) Basic principles of and materials for teaching young singers. MUSE 4601 - Integrative Arts (3) (MUHL 4601). Cultural activities in their interrelation with each other and with corresponding historic and economic events. Open without prerequisite to non-music majors of junior and senior standing. MUSE 4700 - Instrumental Conducting (2-3) Various problems encountered in preparation and conducting of instrumental scores; individual practice with opportunity for each student to conduct instrumental groups. Three class hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 2002, 3700, MUTC 2008/2010. MUSE 4701 - Choral Conducting (2-3) Various problems encountered in preparing and conducting traditional and contemporary vocal scores; rehearsal techniques; individual practice with laboratory groups. Three class hours per week. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 2002, 3700 MUTC 2008/2010. MUSE 4802 - Level I Orff-Schulwerk (1-3) Basic Orff-Schulwerk techniques including body movement, soprano recorder, percussion, vocal performance, improvisation and arranging. PREREQUISITE: junior standing in music education or equivalent experience. MUSE 4911 - Residency II (9) Full-time planned and supervised teaching experience in music providing opportunities to synthesize knowledge and skills and demonstrate professional competencies in educational settings. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 2002 and approval of music education faculty. COREQUISITE: MUSE 4999. MUSE 4999 - Professional Seminar (3) Seminar to be taken concurrently with student teaching requiring student to analyze practices, solve problems and review timely material pertinent to the field of music education; emphasis on addressing concerns and questions arising in student teaching settings. PREREQUISITE: MUSE 2002. COREQUISITE: MUSE 4911. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .