#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11393
Assistant Professor of Japanese Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant Professor of Japanese Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC435 Advertised Title Assistant Professor of Japanese Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 003187 Category Full-Time Faculty Department Foreign Languages Position Summary The Department of Foreign Languages and Literatures at The University of Memphis invites applications for a tenure-track position in the field of Japanese language beginning August 2016 pending availability of funds. Ph.D. in Japanese language or related field in hand by time of appointment. Native or near-native proficiency in Japanese and English required. Specialization in one or more of these fields: Japanese language pedagogy, applied linguistics, sociolinguistics. Interest in integration of language study and interdisciplinary study such as Japanese culture including pop culture, Japanese performing arts, international business, and community-based/ service learning programs are highly desired. Use of technology in classroom teaching and familiarity with current language pedagogy required. Strong promise of research output in the field and commitment to teaching as demonstrated by student and supervisor evaluations. Duties will include teaching at all levels both at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Applicants must upload a cover letter indicating their teaching skills/philosophy, current CV, unofficial transcript, the email addresses for three references whom you have contacted to submit letters of recommendation, and recent student and supervisor evaluations (2014-2015) at . Deadline for submission of all documents is December 1, 2015. If you require additional information, please contact Professor Yuki Matsuda at ymatsuda@memphis.edu. The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents Institution, an Equal Opportunity Affirmative Action University. Minimum Position Qualifications Ph.D. in Japanese language or related field in hand by time of appointment. Native or near-native proficiency in Japanese and English required. Specialization in one or more of these fields: Japanese language pedagogy, applied linguistics, sociolinguistics. Interest in integration of language study and interdisciplinary study such as Japanese culture including pop culture, Japanese performing arts, international business, and community-based/ service learning programs are highly desired. Use of technology in classroom teaching and familiarity with current language pedagogy required. Strong promise of research output in the field and commitment to teaching as demonstrated by student and supervisor evaluations. Duties will include teaching at all levels both at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Special Conditions Posting Date 10/30/2015 Closing Date 12/01/2015 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range Competitive Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Applicants must upload a cover letter indicating their teaching skills/philosophy, current CV, unofficial transcript, the email addresses for three references whom you have contacted to submit letters of recommendation, and recent student and supervisor evaluations (2014-2015) at . Applicants should use the &#8220;Other Document 1&#8221; link to upload their student evaluations. You will need to scan your materials into one file. Deadline for submission of all documents is December 1, 2015. Instructions to Applicant regarding references Applicants must provide at least three email addresses for references whom you have contacted to submit letters of recommendation. Reference providers will be sent an email giving them the instructions on how to upload their letter in the Workforum system. Deadline for all materials to be uploaded is December 1, 2015. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Cover Letter Other Document 1 References List Unofficial Transcript Optional Documents