#http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/people/profiles/lau.php
Holly Lau - Theatre &amp; Dance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Theatre &amp; Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Home Theatre &amp; Dance People Holly Lau Holly Lau Chair, Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Phone 901-678-2523 Email Hclau@memphis.edu Fax 901-678-1350 Office 3745 Central Ave., Theatre Building, Room 144 Office Hours By appointment CVS About Holly Lau Holly Lau joined the faculty in August 1991. She teaches Dance History, Contemporary Dance, Dance Composition, Dance Movement Analysis, Improvisation and Performance Fundamentals. In 2012 she received the Benjamin Rawlins, Jr. Meritorious Professorship Award, in 2007 she was named and Dean's Creative Achievement Award Winner and in 1993 she received the Superior Performance in Research Award. Lau is a member of Playback Memphis, an improvisational company that works with underserved communities to help them tell their stories. Most recently she has collaborated with Memphis Police Officers and Ex-felons to create healing through theatre as part of Be the Peace. Her solo work with text, Portal, was featured in August 2014 at Bearnstow's 2014 end of session performance. Education MFA in Dance, The Ohio State University, 1991; BA Summa Cum Laude in Theatre, The University of Southern Maine, 1974; Experience Professional Chair of Theatre &amp; Dance 2012- present Full Professor of Theatre &amp; Dance 2007 Company Member and Co-Artistic Director for Project:Motion Dance- 2004-2007 UofM Director of Dance 1998-2002 Teaching Artist for Lincoln Center Arts in Education Program 1995-2002 Creator, writer, facilitator and artistic director for the first arts-integration education model for the Memphis City School District Hand-in-Hand, Arts Integration Model for Bruce Elementary School (a K-6 at-risk population) 1994-1999 Arts in Education Consultant for the Delta Arts Institute, Wolf Trap Early Childhood Education in the Arts, Kennedy Center and the Lincoln Center Institute. Research and Scholarly Activities Research Interests Teaching interests: Solo performance, Text and Dance, Dance and Community Building, Arts in Education, Women's Studies Creative Research (selected): Playback Memphis Ensemble Member 2009- present Portal, text and dance solo performance, Mt Vernon Maine 2014 Swath, dance for eight, Dance Space 2009 Transgressions (Three instances), The University of Northampton, UK, Providence College, The Ohio State University, Cornell University, Wells College 2005 RiverDreams, quartet, state wide tour, 2004-2005 Baggage, duet, The University of Alabama Tuscaloosa 1993 Published Research (selected): StartSmart Dance Experience Plans. Startsmartnetwork.org. Fall 2005 Creative Partnerships-Extending Contexts. Proceedings for Hawaiian International Conference on Arts and Humanities. Spring 2003 Dances I am Eager to See,Teaching across race, class and gender. Standpoint. Center for Research on Women. Fall 2003. V 22, N. 1 Editor for The Newsletter of the Society of Dance History Scholars. Memphis, The University of Memphis, 1995-1997 The Child as Work of Art: Blending Art and Academics in the Curriculum through the Arts/Bruce Connection , Proceedings of Border Crossings Conference The Society of Dance History Scholars 10 - 14 May 1995 Riverside: The University of California The Negro Spirituals: Memphis Today; The History and Politics of Its Reconstruction. Proceedings of Dance Reconstructed Conference The Society of Dance History Scholars, 16 &amp; 17 Oct. 1993. Toronto, Canada. 2015-2016 Season Join us for our 2015-2016 Theatre &amp; Dance Season In the News Cassie Beck (BFA '99) talks about her role in the Roundabout Theatre production of The Humans. Watch Me – Theatre Video Take a closer look at the UofM Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Anthony Pellecchia Meet our new lighting and sound designer Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/14/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .