#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/cjus.php
CRIM Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning CRIM Courses CRIMINOLOGY AND CRIMINAL JUSTICE (CJUS) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: CJUS 6010-19. Special Topics in Criminal Justice. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online course listings. CJUS 7190-99. Special Topics in Criminal Justice. (3). Systematic and comprehensive examination of important and timely issues and development in the field of criminal justice. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours. CJUS 6160 - Forensic Sciences (3) Forensic specialties will be discussed in terms of their history, the scientific rationale upon which each is based, and the problems that may compromise accuracy or validity; introduction to field techniques and analysis of evidence. CJUS 6180 - Corp/White Collar Crime (3) Organizational and occupational crime in comparison to other types of criminality; emphasis on causes, frequency, control, and social impact. CJUS 6190 - Terrorism Soc/Legl Prsp (3) Theoretical and ideological aspects of practice of and response to international and domestic terrorism; terrorism as crime from political, social, economic, historical, and legal perspectives. CJUS 6520 - Substantive Crimnl Law (3) Substance of the crime, including common-law sources and basic principles, types of offenses, responsibility, justification and excuse, and related areas. CJUS 6531 - Issues/Constitnl Rights (3) Issues in constitutional rights related to criminal defendants, including the exclusionary rule, application of First Amendment to criminal law, due process, and equal protection; examination of civil and criminal remedies for protecting and vindicating constitutional rights. CJUS 6533 - Juvnl Delinq Thry/Procs (3) Theories of juvenile delinquency, gang activities, and status offenses; history, organization, programs, and procedures of agencies charged with control and prevention of juvenile delinquency including police, juvenile units, juvenile courts, and juvenile correctional agencies. CJUS 6535 - Capital Punishment/America (3) Social science research on death penalty in United States; legal history of death penalty; structure of modern capital trials and appeals; wrongful death convictions; racial disparities; jury decision-making; life histories of capital defendants; deterrence, brutalization, incapacitation; human costs of murder and execution. CJUS 7100 - CJ Administration (3) Examination of the structure and interrelationship of the major components of the criminal justice system, with an emphasis on the impact of social and political forces on roles and functions of criminal justice agencies. CJUS 7110 - Ind Dir Study (1-4) Individual directed research/readings in special areas of interest in the field of criminal justice. May be repeated for a maximum of 4 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Coordinator of Graduate Studies. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CJUS 7128 - Rsrch Mthds Crim Justce (3) Principles of social science research as applied to the study of the criminal justice system; sampling techniques and research strategies; emphasis on the development of research skills enabling the student to conduct an independent research project. CJUS 7129 - Advanced Stat In Cj (3) Introduction to intermediate and advanced topics related to statistical analysis of data from the National Archive of Criminal Justice Data; emphasis on Bureau of Justice Statistics data describing principal activities of the system and on complex data sets or those showing special promise for informing theoretical issues. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the Graduate Coordinator. CJUS 7130 - Crime Anly/Crim Bhvr (3) In-depth study of "normal crimes"; the analysis of the characteristics of the criminal, the victim, and the setting for specified offenses; the typical demographic and ecological elements of each type of crime with the purpose of providing a framework for analysis and comparison. CJUS 7131 - Res Practicum In Cj (3) The student will be exposed to development, implementation, and/or analysis of research methodology. Each student will work under direction of one faculty member on an experimental, theoretical or applied research study. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: CJUS 7128. CJUS 7141 - Reading For Comps (1-6) Arranged on an individual basis for Criminology and Criminal Justice graduate students only and directed by faculty. PREREQUISITES: Student must have completed required course work or be in the last semester of required course work. NOTE: Criminology and Criminal Justice majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CJUS 7150 - Intrnshp Criminl Justce (3-6) Experience in a criminal justice setting through assignment to an enforcement, judicial, or correctional agency under joint supervision of agency officials and university faculty. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Coordinator of Graduate Studies. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CJUS 7160 - Sem Cj Administration (3) Theories of organization with emphasis on structures, principles, techniques, and processes of criminal justice agencies; factors affecting behavior within such organizations; motivation, leadership, group dynamics, conflict management, unionization, selection, training, performance evaluation, organizational change, and political factors in public agency operation. CJUS 7161 - Intervention Strategies (3) Development of intervention, prevention, and suppression strategies by criminal justice agencies; role of social and political institutions and forces on design and implementation of strategies; emphasis on how design and implementation impact communities and residents. CJUS 7460 - Race,Ethnicity,Gender (3) Looks at ways race, ethnicity, and gender have an impact on how offenders and victims are treated within the criminal justice system, focusing on majority/minority relations and how attitudes revolving around these relations are reflected within the criminal justice process. CJUS 7510 - Law And Society (3) Examination of law as a system of control and as a mechanism for the resolution of conflict; relationship of law to political, economic, and social systems critically analyzed; the development of the legal profession. CJUS 7523 - Cncpt Of Criminal Law (3) Social foundation and principles on which our system of criminal law is based. CJUS 7535 - Seminar in Capital Punishment (3) In depth study of the death penalty in the United States, with focus on four areas: history of death penalty in U.S.; legal issues and rulings; current social science research; effects of homicide and capital punishment on society. CJUS 7541 - Crim Theory (3) An overview of historical, sociological, biological, and economic theories of crime causation; particular attention will be paid to critically analyzing each of the theories presented in terms of research findings. CJUS 7542 - Victimology (3) An overview of the study of crime victims and the process, etiology, and consequences of criminal victimization, with focus on the types of crime victims, theories of victimization, and the victim's treatment within the criminal justice system using national data as well as recent research findings. CJUS 7570 - Legal Issues CJ Admin (3) Relationship between legal and constitutional issues and concepts of ordered liberty and administration of justice; application of legal methodology to analysis of current issues in constitutional rights and remedies. CJUS 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CJUS 8100 - Cj Administration (3) Examination of the structure and interrelationship of the major components of the criminal justice system, with an emphasis on the impact of social and political forces on roles and functions of criminal justice agencies. CJUS 8110 - Ind Dir Study (1-4) Individual directed research/readings in special areas of interest in the field of criminal justice. May be repeated for a maximum of 4 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Coordinator of Graduate Studies. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CJUS 8141 - Reading For Comps (1-6) Arranged on an individual basis for Criminology and Criminal Justice graduate students only and directed by faculty. PREREQUISITES: Student must have completed required course work or be in the last semester of required course work. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CJUS 8150 - Intrnshp Criminl Justce (3-6) Experience in a criminal justice setting through assignment to an enforcement, judicial, or correctional agency under joint supervision of agency officials and university faculty. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Coordinator of Graduate Studies. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .