#http://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/selfserv/lookup-search.php
Look Up Classes: Search Options - Registrar - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty &amp; Staff Forms Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Home Registrar Students Look Up Classes: Search Options Look Up Classes: Search Options Once you select Lookup Classes (from the Registration Tools channel or elsewhere), you should see the Select Term screen. Select the term you want from the drop-down box and click the [Submit] button. You are now on the main Look Up Classes selection screen: you should see a Subject list plus two buttons, [Course Search] and [Advanced Search]. [Course Search] Option This option allows you to search primarily by subject area. You must select at least one Subject for a successful search; however, you may select more than one Subject. Once you have selected a Subject or Subjects, click the [Course Search] button. Course titles for each Subject you selected will be displayed. By each course title, you will see a [View Sections] button. Click the button to see detailed section information (meeting days, times, instructor, etc.): [Advanced Search] Option This option allows you to search using several criteria at once; thus, you can narrow your search on the front end. This is the search option to use if you are searching for courses taught during a particular meeting pattern and/or time, or by a particular instructor, or during a specific part of term, or a combination of these or other criteria. You do not have to select a Subject on the main screen; click [Advanced Search] to go to the Advanced Search screen. Here you can search based on the many options (Part of Term, Instructor, etc.) and Subject. Again, you must select at least one Subject for a successful search, but you can select several Subjects if you wish: When you have selected all the search options you want, click the [Class Search] button to display detailed section information. Refer to the for information regarding the [Advanced Search] selection fields: Subject You must select at least one Subject. It is possible to select ALL or several Subjects in one search . Course Number Leave this blank unless you are searching for a particular course. Example: You are interested in ENGL 2010, so you select "ENGL" for Subject and enter "2010" here. You can use this field to search for a particular number-level within a Subject or Subjects. Enter the first digit of the level followed by the per cent sign (%). Example: "3%" will return a list of 3000-level courses only. Title Enter a key word you expect to be in the course title. Example: "Anatomy" Instructional Method This the method in which the course is delivered. All = all methods. This is the default. Usually you will not want to change this. However, this is a useful option is in locating web-delivered courses only . Credit Range Generally it is best to leave this field blank. If you do use it, it is best to fill in the first number only. This is useful in finding a 1-hour or 2-hour course you might need to bring your status up from part-time to full-time. Campus The location at which the class is being offered. All = All Locations, including the Main Campus. The 3-character code at end of the Campus name is used in Look Up Classes results to identify the Campus (CMP column). It is possible to exclude the Main Campus and list only courses offered at satellite campuses . Course Level This is most useful for restricting your results to Undergraduate courses only or Graduate courses only, though other options are available. Part of Term All = All Parts of Term. An academic term consists of several Parts of Term. You may enroll in multiple Parts of Term. (However, the Law Term is restricted to Law students.) A Fall or Spring term consists of these Parts of Term: Full Term, Regents Term, First Half-Term, Second Half-Term, and Law Term. A Summer term consists of these Parts of Term: Full Term, Regents Term, First Half-Term, Second Half-Term, First Teacher Term, and Second Teacher Term. Full and Regents terms run the entire semester. A course taken in one term is the equivalent of the same course taken in another term. Example: Full Term ENGL 1010 = First Half-Term ENGL 1010 (or Second Half, or Regents, etc.) This option is useful in narrowing your selection to the courses offered in a particular Part of Term . (Example: You want a list of HIST courses offered in Second Half-Term only.) Instructor The instructor(s) of record, if available. All = All Instructors. You can select multiple Instructors in your search. Attribute Type Use this to search for courses that satisfy particular General Education (Gen Ed) requirements. Note : Some colleges require that you take particular courses to satisfy Gen Ed requirements (ex., the college may insist on a BIOL sequence). Check with your advisor before selecting a Gen Ed course. Start Time Use these options to find courses that will fit around your work schedule or other commitments. When you find courses that you want to add to your class schedule, either: write down the CRNs and then go to the Add or Drop Classes page to register for the courses, or click on the open box to the left of each CRN and then click on either the [Register] or [Add to Worksheet] button (bottom of page) to add the course to the Add or Drop Classes page. [Register] actually attempts to register you in the course; if you are successful, the courses will appear in the top portion of the Add or Drop Classes screen; error messages/explanations will appear for any courses you did not successfully register for. [Add to Worksheet] simply transfers the selected courses to the bottom of the Add or Drop Classes page (Add Classes Worksheet area). The system does not attempt to add the classes in this area until you click the [Submit Changes] button there. NOTE: If you do not see an open box by the section you are interested in, then you cannot register for that course or section. Students Students Enrollment Verification Grades Overview GPA and Grading Scale Grade Change Transcripts Overview Official Unofficial Lambuth University FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM Self Service Guides Calendars Academic calendars, dates/deadlines, exams. Notice! Check for alerts and reminders. Contact Us Have questions? Need assistance or information? Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .