#http://www.memphis.edu/law/career-services/symplicity-guide.php
Symplicity Guide - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Career Services Student Resources &amp; Services Services Symplicity Guide Career Pathways Clerkships Pro Bono On Campus Interviews 1L CSO Orientation Job Fairs Job Postings Alumni Resources &amp; Services Services Reciprocity Symplicity Esq.Build Get Involved Employer Resources Posting a Job On Campus Recruiting Resume Collection Program Increasing Your Visibility Employment Statistics Home School of Law Career Services Symplicity Guide SYMPLICITY GUIDE The Memphis Law CSO uses Symplicity , a web-based program, to facilitate on-campus interviews, job postings, resume collects, and other functions. As a Memphis Law student, you will be assigned a Symplicity account when you begin law school. To login: Your user name is your UUID; your law school e-mail address excluding the "@memphis.edu." Your password is the same as the password to your law school webmail account. If you have difficulties accessing or using Symplicity, please contact us at lawcareerservices@memphis.edu. To begin using your Symplicity account, follow these steps: Click on the "Profile" tab in the row of choices at the top. You then will see a screen for personal information. Enter your name, address, phone number, email address, year in law school, graduation date, and geographic location preference. Select "Save" and "Continue." Click on the "Academic Information" tab and make sure that the "Year in School" and anticipated "Graduation Date" are correct. Enter any practice areas of interest, work authorization, current degree level and at least one geographic preference. Click "Save" and "Continue." Click on "Privacy" tab. Select "Yes" to receive e-mail messages from the Career Center. You will need to decide if you would like to promote your resume so that potential employers can search your resume in Symplicity. Finally, you will check "Yes" or "No" to receive text message alerts. Click "Save." Next, you need to upload your resume. Go to the "Documents" section of Symplicity. Click on "Add New," give the document a name, choose the document type, and then browse your computer's hard drive until the name of the resume appears in the window — click "Submit." After you have uploaded the resume, you can view it either as a PDF file or in its original format. Be sure to review the PDF file to ensure that the format has converted properly as the PDF file will be the version you will upload to send to employers through Symplicity. If you do not upload your resume, you will not be able to view job postings and bid on interviews. Note for First-year Students : First-year students will not be able to finalize resumes until mid-January when you will have your GPA and ranking. However, go ahead and update all other parts of your resume and add the GPA and ranking as soon as they are received. For examples, look at the resume templates in the Career Services Planning Manual that is contained in Symplicity's document library. Some employers will want to see a cover letter, transcript, writing sample, or list of references. You will need to create the documents requested by employers and upload them into the "Documents" section in Symplicity. If you need an unofficial transcript (what most employers will request), go to the University Registrar's page. There are directions at the bottom of the page that will allow you to access your transcript. The easiest method to upload your transcript is to: Highlight your entire transcript; Copy the highlighted section by pressing CTRL C or access the "Copy" function from the "Edit" menu of your browser; Open a new Word document and paste your transcript into the blank document (press control-V or access the "Paste" function from the "Edit" menu of Word; "Save" the document; and Upload the new document that you have created from the Symplicity document tab. Be sure to select "Unofficial law school transcript" as the document type. Career Services Student Resources &amp; Services Services Symplicity Guide Career Pathways Clerkships Pro Bono On Campus Interviews 1L CSO Orientation Job Fairs Job Postings Alumni Resources &amp; Services Services Reciprocity Symplicity Esq.Build Get Involved Employer Resources Posting a Job On Campus Recruiting Resume Collection Program Increasing Your Visibility Employment Statistics Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .