#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11391
Assistant/Associate Professor or Full Professor, Psychology Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant/Associate Professor or Full Professor, Psychology Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC431 Advertised Title Assistant/Associate Professor or Full Professor, Psychology Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 001434 Category Full-Time Faculty Department Psychology Position Summary The Department of Psychology invites applications for two tenure-track faculty positions in Behavioral Neuroscience beginning August 2016 – one position for Assistant Professor and the other position at the Associate or Full Professor level. Both candidates must possess a Ph.D. and postdoctoral experience. The specific area of specialization within behavioral neuroscience is open. At the Assistant Professor level, the department is interested in candidates who have a strong record of programmatic research and publications, currently have or are likely to obtain external funding, and have had experience in or evidence of potential for successful collaborative research. Applicants applying for the advanced position must have a history of sustained independent research productivity including a successful record of obtaining external funding, a strong publication history stemming from an independent research program, and evidence of success in research collaborations. Exceptional collaborative research opportunities are available on campus and within the Memphis area including The University of Tennessee Health Sciences Center and St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital. The persons hired will be expected to teach at the undergraduate and graduate level, which may include courses in research methods or statistics. The University of Memphis Psychology Department consists of more than 30 full-time faculty members, 114 graduate students, and 750 undergraduate majors. Founded in 1984, the Department is home to the Center for Applied Psychological Research, which is one of the original and most successful Tennessee Centers of Excellence. Graduate degree programs include APA -accredited doctoral programs in Clinical Psychology and School Psychology; a doctoral program in Experimental Psychology; a master’s degree program in General Psychology; and a M.A./Ed.S. Program in School Psychology. Additional information on the Department of Psychology is available at: Review of applicants will begin on December 7, 2015 and may continue until filled or an adequate applicant pool is established, pending availability of funds. Direct inquiries to search committee co-chair, Dr. Helen Sable (at hjsable@memphis.edu or 901.678.4343). Minimum Position Qualifications Candidates must possess a Ph.D. and postdoctoral experience. The department is especially interested in candidates who have a strong record of research publications, currently have or are likely to obtain external funding, and have had experience in or reveal potential for successful collaborative research. Special Conditions Posting Date 10/28/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range Competitive and Commensurate with Experience Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Applicants must upload a curriculum vitae, a cover letter describing research and teaching interests, an unofficial transcript, contact information for three professional reference providers, and selected publications. Applicants may be requested to submit specific needs for research equipment and resources (including estimated itemized costs)at a later date. Instructions to Applicant regarding references Applicants must submit email addresses for three reference providers. An automatic email will be sent to the providers with an embedded link to access and upload their letter to workForum. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Cover Letter References List Unofficial Transcript Article Reprint 1 Optional Documents Article Reprint 2 Article Reprint 3