#http://www.memphis.edu/sph/students_alumni/
Students &amp; Alumni - SPH - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Public Health About Programs People Students &amp; Alumni News Home SPH Students &amp; Alumni Students &amp; Alumni why attend an accredited school of public health? There are many reasons to choose a school that is accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). First and foremost, accreditation ensures that the school meets the most rigorous standards for academic programs in public health and that the curriculum incorporates the essential skills and knowledge needed by today's public health professionals. For prospective students considering a graduate degree in public health, please click here to see CEPH's FAQs for Students. What Students are Saying Students Adam Alexander, Asos Mahmood, and Nikko Carlson share their thoughts on obtaining a graduate degree at the University of Memphis School of Public Health: Student associations SPH student associations facilitate communication and cohesiveness among students and with faculty, provide opportunities for academic and professional growth through collaboration with community organizations and volunteer events, and organize campus events that promote public health. Both the MHA Student Association and the Public Health Student Association are also great resources for students who are new to the university or the Memphis area, fostering connection and involvement. MHA Student Association It is an exciting time to be a part of the Master of Healthcare Administration Student Association (MHASA), seeing as our MHA program has been ranked 48th by U.S. News and World Report. We jumped 16 spots between 2011 and 2015, and will continue to rise. The objectives of the MHASA are: (1) to promote an environment conducive to educational and ethical development of professional, personal, and social skills in a manner that will produce effective leaders in healthcare, (2) to provide a vehicle for constructive student involvement, recognition, and representation in the profession of healthcare administration, (3) To develop an association with local and regional healthcare executive groups to enhance academic and career opportunities, (4) To inform members, potential members, and others in the community of the purposes of the College; its goals, programs, and benefits, (5) to provide students, faculty, and practitioners a forum for professional interaction and dialogue concerning issues in healthcare administration, and (6) to contribute to the quality of the CAHME accredited MHA program at the University of Memphis. Public Health Student Association The Public Health Student Association (PHSA) strives to create a strong and enduring foundation for future public health leaders. The PHSA mission is to (1) promote awareness of career and academic issues related to the field of public health by serving as a voice to the faculty and administration, (2) support all public health students at UofM academically, professionally, and socially, (3) organize health-related volunteer activities within the community, (4) collaborate with health organizations agencies, and associations regarding public health programming activities, (5) encourage students to actively pursue educational and professional development, and (6) host regular social events for public health students to foster positive interactions among students, faculty and staff. The objectives of the PHSA are to: (1) foster a rewarding graduate school experience for its members, (2) develop a sense of community among all students and staff in the School of Public Health, (3) provide members with resources that will enhance their professional careers, (3) coordinate communication among student organizations in the School of Public Health, (4) expand opportunities for student professional development, (5) facilitate student dialogue with local, state, and national organizations, (6) promote research opportunities through collaborative public health approaches to disease prevention and health promotion, and (7) foster communication among students, SPH faculty, staff, and administration. For more information, contact us or visit our website . Click here to read the October 2015 newsletter! 2016 PHSA Officers Leah Reish, President Meghan Meadows, Vice President Emma Draluck, Secretary Victoria Liddle, Treasurer Obrenka Thompson, Social Action Chair Ashlyn Cahill, Advocacy Committee Chair annual sph interdisciplinary case competition The Annual School of Public Health Interdisciplinary Case Competition (SPHICC) invites graduate students from all academic programs across the university to work with a team to improve the health of a local neighborhood by proposing community-based programs and projects. SPHICC uses the BUILD Health Challenge framework to guide the student teams through the case competition to develop solutions that are Bold, Upstream, Innovative, Local and Data driven. After several months of preparation, students present their solutions to a panel of community judges. First, second, and third place teams receive small monetary prizes. The Fourth Annual SPHICC will involve students engaging with the local neighborhood both to assess problems before developing their solutions and to receive input on the development of their solutions from the members of the neighborhood. For more information about the SPHICC, please click here ! Alumni spotlight Chee Lam, MPH (2012), recently accepted a new position at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as a Public Health Advisor. Caroline Hamilton graduated from the University of Memphis Master of Public Health program in August 2015. She is currently working for the Methodist LeBonheur Healthcare System in the Primary Care Group in a managerial role. A 2008 graduate of Lambuth University, she looks forward to utilizing the experience and education gained through the MPH program to aid in creating the ideal patient experience through the delivery of affordable and accessible care. She is currently working with a Methodist initiative of the National Committee for Quality Assurance, the Patient-Centered Medical Home, to ensure that the primary care group emphasizes care coordination and communication to make the experience "what the patient wants it to be." Medical homes can lead to higher quality and lower costs, and can improve both patient and provider experience of care. sph photo gallery resources and information Apply Now Contact Us Support SPH Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .