#http://www.memphis.edu/law/admissions/lsat-prep.php
LSAT Prep - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application Guide LSAT Prep Transfer Information TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP) Part-Time Program Schedule a Visit Academic Curriculum Apply Now Check Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats Overview Class Profile Factsheet 2015 Viewbook Request a Viewbook Bragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of Costs Tuition Information Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Payment Academic Curriculum Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Recruiting Calendar Ask a Current Student Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ List Application Information LSAT Notification and Acceptance Curriculum Childcare City of Memphis Admitted Student Information Home School of Law Admissions LSAT Prep LSAT PREP There are many ways to approach preparation for the LSAT. Since all LSAT scores are included on the Credential Assembly Service (CAS) report, applicants are encouraged to prepare and not to take the exam cold. More information on preparing for the LSAT can be found online through LSAC . LSAC publications, including those listed below, can be ordered online or at 215-968-1001. Many test prep companies also offer classes and materials for test preparation. Sample LSAT items available through LSAC include: LSAT ItemWise Online Preparation - $18.00 The Official LSAT SuperPrep - $19.95 The Official 10 Actual LSAT PrepTests - $19.95 LSAT Official Individual PrepTests - $ 8.00 Kindle or Nook Ebooks - $ 5.99 Admission Criteria Our admissions process seeks those applicants with the greatest chance for success, both in their education and in their future careers. As a result, admission into the University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphrey's School of Law is competitive. Each year we receive and process approximately 1,000 applications. These applicants are competing for 150 seats in the entering class. A significant factor in the admission process is the "admission index," which is based on the applicant's undergraduate grade point average and the applicant's highest Law School Admission Test (LSAT) score. The undergraduate grade point average used in the admissions index is the cumulative grade point average found on the CAS report as calculated by the Law School Admission Council. While the admission index uses the highest LSAT score, if an applicant has taken the LSAT more than once he or she is encouraged to explain, in a statement, any variance in their LSAT scores. Also considered are factors deemed to be predictive of success in law school as set forth in the application may include, but are not limited to, overall academic record, extracurricular activities, community involvement, employment, and other life experiences. Applicants are encouraged to submit letters of recommendation addressing their potential for academic success. As a publicly assisted institution of the state, Tennessee residents may be given preference in selection; however, non-resident applicants are encouraged to apply and must submit a separate statement detailing reasons for wanting to attend the University of Memphis School of Law. Memphis Law recognizes the benefits of diversity in the classroom. We endeavor to create a student body representative of a wide range of social, economic, racial and ethnic backgrounds and experiences. In the personal statement, applicants are encouraged to identify ways in which they may contribute to the diversity of Memphis Law. Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application Guide LSAT Prep Transfer Information TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP) Part-Time Program Schedule a Visit Academic Curriculum Apply Now Check Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats Overview Class Profile Factsheet 2015 Viewbook Request a Viewbook Bragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of Costs Tuition Information Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Payment Academic Curriculum Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Recruiting Calendar Ask a Current Student Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ List Application Information LSAT Notification and Acceptance Curriculum Childcare City of Memphis Admitted Student Information Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .