#http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/people/profiles/allen.php
Jacob Allen - Theatre &amp; Dance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Theatre &amp; Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Home Theatre &amp; Dance People Jacob Allen Jacob Allen Assistant Professor, Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Phone 901-678-2863 Email jgallen@memphis.edu Fax 901-678-1350 Office 3745 Central Ave., Theatre Building, Room 237-D Office Hours MW 12:30-3pm and by appointment CVS About Jacob Allen Jacob joined the BFA Performance faculty in 2010 with an emphasis in Musical Theatre. As a director and performer Jacob has worked extensively throughout the Midwest and New England. Productions include My Fair Lady, Guys and Dolls, The King and I, Fiddler on the Roof, Les Mamelles de Tiresias, El Capitan, Helen of Troy, Little Shop of Horrors, The Last Five Years, You're A Good Man Charlie Brown, La Traviata, The Consul, Ruddigore, Naughty Marietta, Merrily We Roll Along, Anything Goes, Jekyll and Hyde, Kiss Me, Kate, Children of Eden, and The Winter's Tale. As an artist Jacob is an advocate for American Lyric Theatre and Art Song. He has recently performed in the premiere of Lee Hoiby's This is the Rill Speaking and directed the first staged production of Jake Heggie's For a Look or a Touch. In 2003 he premiered David Thurmaier's cycle of songs for Baritone, Three American Songs based on texts by Walt Whitman, Robert Frost, and Edward Arlington Robinson. He has also been featured in many recordings of early American musical theatre and operetta in English translation on the Albany Records label, and DVD's of his work as both performer and director are available through the American Operetta Foundation. As a teacher Jacob is fascinated by the challenges faced by young singers in their development as theatrical performers and is dedicated to the integration of acting and singing. He was the 2014 recipient of the Thomas W. Briggs Foundation award for excellence in teaching, the University of Memphis' highest honor for excellence in the classroom. Education M.Mus. in Stage Direction, The Eastman School of Music, 2008; BA Cum Laude in Theatre, Lawrence University, 2004; B.Mus. Cum Laude in Voice Performance, Lawrence University, 2004. Research Interests Teaching interests: Acting, Voice, Musical Theatre Performance, Musical Theatre History, Vocal Pedagogy Publications Current • Role of Joe Snedicker – Ohio Light Opera. Dream City and the Magic Knight. Albany Records, 2015. • Role of Hubert von Muzelburg – Ohio Light Opera. The Carnival Fairy. Albany Records, 2012. • Role of Karl Binder – Ohio Light Opera. Blossomtime . Albany Records, 2012 • Role of Matosin – Ohio Light Opera. The Fortuneteller . Albany Records, 2011. • Role of Gaston – Ohio Light Opera. Mademoiselle Modiste [DVD]. American Operetta Foundation, 2010. • Ohio Light Opera. Ruddigore . Albany Records, 2010. • Role of Gaston – Ohio Light Opera. Mademoiselle Modiste . Albany Records, 2009. • Role of Horace Gripps - Ohio Light Opera. The Cabaret Girl . Albany Records, 2009. • Ohio Light Opera. The Mikado . Albany Records, 2008 • Ohio Light Opera. The Birdseller . Albany Records, 2008 • Role of Populani - Ohio Light Opera. Bluebeard . Albany Records, 2007. • Role of Antonio - Ohio Light Opera. The Gondoliers . Albany Records, 2007. • Role of Jenkins - Ohio Light Opera. The Firefly . Albany Records, 2006. Upcoming • Role of Hubert von Muzelburg – Ohio Light Opera. The Carnival Fairy [DVD]. American Operetta Foundation. • Role of Merlin/Judge Thurston – Ohio Light Opera. A Connecticut Yankee . Rogers and Hammerstein Library. • Role of the Dance Master - Ohio Light Opera. The Queen's Lace Handkerchief . American Operetta Foundation. • Role of Jimmy Jack Bondy - Ohio Light Opera. Duchess from Chicago [DVD]. American Operetta Foundation. • Role of Horace Gripps - Ohio Light Opera. The Cabaret Girl [DVD]. American Operetta Foundation. • Role of Jenkins - Ohio Light Opera. The Firefly [DVD]. American Operetta Foundation. 2015-2016 Season Join us for our 2015-2016 Theatre &amp; Dance Season In the News Cassie Beck (BFA '99) talks about her role in the Roundabout Theatre production of The Humans. Watch Me – Theatre Video Take a closer look at the UofM Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Anthony Pellecchia Meet our new lighting and sound designer Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/14/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .