#http://www.memphis.edu/financialaid/pdfs/20152016awardinfograduate.pdf
Revised 0 2 /2015 GRADUATE STUDENTS IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT 201 5 - 201 6 FINANCIAL AID AWARDS Financial Aid Awards are subject to the following General Conditions: Degree Seeking. Generally, you must be accepted as a degree - seeking student, with a major, to receive financial aid. Satisfactory Academic Progress. All awards are subject to a review of your acad emic record at the end of each Fall and/or S pring semester. If you are not meeting the requirements of our Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy, the aid amount(s) you have been awarded could be canceled. A notice will be posted on your myMemphis account if are below the Standards of Satisfactory Academic Progress after the end of the semester (or when our office has knowledge that your cumulative grade point average is below the required minimum). For more information, refer t o : . Other Resources. Y our award amounts are determined based on the receipt of other resources such as scholarships , graduate assistantships, vocational rehabilitation benefits, and /or fee waivers. The total need - based aid programs plus other resources , can not exceed your financial need ( which is the difference between your total Cost O f Attendance and Expected F amily C ontribution ). The total of need - based and non - need based programs cannot exceed your C ost O f A ttendance . Because many graduate students receive a fee waiver associated with an assistantship, the value of a fee waiver is assumed to be part of your total financial aid award. If a f ee waiver is included as part of your financial aid award s and you will not be a Graduate Assistant , complete and submit the Other Financial Assistance Notice Form to the Student Financial Aid Office. This form can be found online at . Enrollment Status. Your award is subject to change based on your enrollment status. The initial award is based on full - time attendance of 9 graduate credit hours. You should inform our office if you plan to enroll less than 9 graduate credit hours. In general, you must enroll at least half time, a minimum of 5 graduate credit hours, in order to receive financial aid. Audited classes and undergraduate level classes are excluded from your enrollment status. Financial aid recipients MUST ATTEND CLASSES to qualify for federal aid. If your professor reports you as never attended, your aid could be cancelled. If you are not planning to attend, you must drop all your classes prior to the first day of the term. Students who graduate at the end of the Fall semester must be admitted into a NEW degree - seeking program to continue to qualify for aid for the Spring/subsequent semester. Direct Loans: Prior to viewing and accepting/declining your loans, you loan award amounts are OFFERED on your myMemphis account based on your maximum loan eligibility for your current grade level and/or the cumulative amount of your previous loans. This is your opportunity to carefully consider the amount of loans that you need based on your anticipated expenses, other re sources, and the monthly payments for the cumulative amount of student loans that you have already borrowed. (Refer to the sample re payment chart on the next page.) Remember that interest begins to accrue from the date of disbursement for unsubsidized loa ns. If you received your first Direct Loan at The University of Memphis, or at another Direct Lending institution less than 10 years ago , then you probably do NOT need to complete a new Direct Loan Master Promiss ory Note (MPN) for the Fall 201 5 semester. If you are a new Direct Loan borrower for the Fall 201 5 semester, you will need to complete an MPN and the Entrance Counseling online at . Graduate PLUS Loan: A Graduate PLUS loan is a supplemental loan based on credit that is available to students who need to borrow more than the ir academic year maximum unsubsidized loan of $20,500 to meet educational costs that are not covered by other financial aid. Students interested in this loan must apply online at . If the credit check is Revised 0 2 /2015 approved, first time Graduate PLUS loan borrowers must complete a separate MPN and Entrance Counseling online at the same website. If the credi t check is declined, student has an opportunity to appeal his/her credit or obtain an endorser/co - signer at by selecting the appropriate option. ** NOTE : Students enrolled in the Teacher Ed ucation Program or a Graduate Certificate Program are not eligible for this loan. S ample Student Loan Repayment Chart : It is the responsibility of each student to keep up or track the cumulative loans that they have borrowed. A summary of this informatio n can be found on the National Student Loan Data System . Your educational borrowing will have an effect on your future lifestyle. You need to be aware of what your monthly loan payments will be before you commit to a loan amount. The standard loan repayment period is ten years and requires a minimum monthly payment of $50. There are other repayment plans available. Total Borrowed Monthly Payment* Total Bo rrowed Monthly Payment* $ 5,000 $ 61.00 $ 31 ,000 $ 3 80 .00 $ 10,000 $ 123.00 $ 50,000 $ 613.00 *To calculate the amount of your monthly payment based on a specific loan amount and repayment plan, use the Direct Loan website: . If Y our A ward I ncludes Federal Work - Study: The amount of your work - study award is the total you are eligible to earn. The awarded amount is not credited to your university charges. Students util ize the work - study program by working on - campus. To look for current job openings, visit the Student Employment website . NOTE to Graduate A ssistants : You may be awarded work - study if you applied early, indicated an interest in work - study, and you have a financial need based on your FAFSA results. F inancial Aid Disbursement: Financial aid is credited to your student account ( Tiger Xpress ) and any bal ance is refunded after fees and other charges are paid. Financial aid balances are either direct deposited to your bank account or mailed to you in the form of a check. The direct deposit process is done by the and begins the last business day before the start of classes. I t is h ighly recommended that you sign up for eRefunds (direct deposit) online through your myMemphis account, under Tiger Xpre ss. Students not signed up for eRefunds will have their c hecks mailed the Friday after the week that classes start and every Friday thereafter , so i t is very important to keep your local address current. You can update your address via your myMemphis account or through the (Room 003, Wilder Tower Basement). Information on disbursement procedures and dates are available from the . If your financial aid only partially pays your tuition and fees, you are expected to pay the balance by the fee payment deadline. If Y ou Completely W ithdraw: Federal regulations require the reduction of your financial aid if you totally withdraw prior to attending 60% of the term. The reduction is based on the percentage of the term that you do not attend. The withdrawal can result in you having to repay financial aid funds . Unt il you repay these funds or make satisfactory repayment arrangements, you cannot receive any future federal financial aid. For more information, refer to id/eligibility.php . IMPORTANT: The Student Financial Aid Office reserves the right to adjust your awards due to changes in your eligibility and/or the availability of funds. If a n error was made, whether by you, the Student Financial Aid Office, or a nother agency, federal regulations require that the error be corrected and that funds be billed /charged back as necessary.