#http://www.memphis.edu/financialaid/pdfs/20152016awardinfolaw.pdf
Revised 02/2015 LAW STUDENTS IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT 201 5 - 201 6 FINANCIAL AID AWARDS Financial Aid Awards are subject to the following General Conditions: Satisfactory Academic Progress. All awards are subject to a review of your academic record at the end of each Fall and/or Spring semester. If you are not meeting the requirements of our Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy , the aid programs you have been awarded could be cancel ed. A n otice will be posted on your myMemphis account if are below the Standards of Satisfactory Academic Progress after the end of the semester (or when our office has knowledge that your cumulative grade point average is below the required minimum). For more information, refer to: . Other Resources. Y our award amounts are determined based on the receipt of other resources such as scholarships , graduate assistantships, vocational rehabilitation benefits, and/or fee waivers . The total need - based aid programs plus other resources cannot exceed your financial need ( which is the difference between your total Cost O f Attendance and Expected F amily C ontribution ). T he total of need - based and non - need based programs cannot exceed your C ost O f A ttendance . Enrollment Status. Your awards are subject to change based on you r enrollment status. Initial awards are based on full - time attendance, 15 l aw credit hours. You should inform our office if you plan to register less than full - time . In general, you must enroll at least half - time, a minimum of 6 law credit hours, in ord er to receive financial aid. I f you are not planning to attend, you must drop all your class es prior to the first day of the term. Financial aid recipients MUST ATTEND CLASSES to qualify for federal aid. If your professor reports you as never attended, your aid could be cancelled. Direct Loan s: Your loan award amounts are OFFERED on your myMemphis account based on your maximum loan eligibility for your current grade level and/or the cumulative amount of your previous loans. This is your op portunity to carefully consider the amount of loans that you need based on your anticipated expenses, other re sources, and the monthly payments for the cumulative amount of student loans that you have already borrowed. (Refer to the sample repayment chart on the next page . ) Remember that interest begins to accrue from the date of disbursement for unsubsidized loa ns. If you received your first Direct Loan at The University of Memphis, or at another Direct Lending institution less than 10 years ago , then you probably do NOT need to complete a new Direct Loan Master Promissory Note (MPN) for the Fall 201 5 semester. If you are a new Direct Loan borrower for the Fall 201 5 semester, you will need to complete an MPN and the Entrance Counseling on line at . Graduate PLUS Loan: A Graduate PLUS loan is a supplemental loan based on credit that is available to students who need to borrow more than the ir academic year maximum unsubsidized loan of $20,500 to meet educational costs that are not covered by other financial aid. Students interested in this loan must apply online at . If the credit check is approved, first time Graduate PLUS loan borrowers must complete a separate MPN and Entrance Counseling online at the same website. If the credi t check is declined, student has an opportunity to appeal his/her credit or obtain an endorser/co - signer at by selecting the appropriate option. Revised 02/2015 Sample Student Loan Repayment Chart : It is the responsibility of each student to keep up or track the cumulative loans that they have borrowed. A summary of this information can be found on the National Student Loan Data System . Your educational borrowing will have an effect on your future lifestyle. You need to be aware of what your monthly loan payments will be before you commit to a loan amount. The standard loan repayment period is ten years and requires a minimum monthly pay ment of $50. There are other repayment plans available. Total Borrowed Monthly Payment* Total Borrowed Monthly Payment* $ 5,000 $ 61.00 $ 3 1 ,000 $ 3 80 .00 $ 10,000 $ 123.00 $ 50,000 $ 613.00 *To calculate the amoun t of your monthly payment based on a specific loan amount and repayment plan, use the Direct Loan website: Financial Aid Disbursement: Financial aid is credited to your student account ( Tiger Xpress ) and any balance is refunded after fees and other charges are paid. Financial aid balances are either direct deposited to your bank account or mailed to you in the form of a check. The direct deposit process is done by t he and begins the last business day before the start of classes. I t is h ighly recommended that you sign up for eRefunds (direct deposit) online through your myMemphis account, under Tiger Xpress. Students not signed up for eRefunds will have their c hecks mailed the Friday after the week that classes start and every Friday thereafter , so i t is very important to keep your l ocal address current. You can update your address via your myMemphis Information on disbursement procedures and dates are available from the . If your financial aid only partially pays your tuition and fees, you are expected to pay the balance by the fee payment deadline. If Y ou Completely W ithdraw: Federal regulations require the reduction of your financial aid if you totally withdraw prior to attending 60% of the term. The reduction is based on the percentage of the term that you do not attend. The withdrawal can result in you having to repay financial aid funds. Until you repay these funds or ma ke satisfactory repayment arrangements, you cannot receive any future federal financial aid. For more information, refer to . IMPORTANT: The Student Financial Aid Office reserves the right to adjust your awards due to changes in your eligibility and/or the availability of funds. If a n error was made, whether by you , the Student Financial Aid Office, or another agency, federal regulations require that the error be corrected and that funds be billed /charged back as necessary.