#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/alcohol.php
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services Students in Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services concentration will select courses in either Social and Public Services or Administrative Services. All will take a core of courses in alcohol and drug abuse, social, and administrative services and will complete their degrees by taking courses relevant to their concentrations. All students must have on-the-job experience, evaluated through internships or portfolio assessment, or both. Persons pursuing this degree typically provide services to those disabled by alcohol and drug abuse, including abusers, families, friends, colleagues, and associates. Wishing to build upon knowledge of and experience in alcohol and drug abuse treatment, persons served by these guidelines will seek careers in Alcohol &amp; Drug Abuse (A&amp;D) Services as administrators or as providers of social and public services in hospitals, social service agencies, employee assistance programs, churches, etc. Some may wish to continue their education in graduate-level programs. These guidelines are designed for persons who can document previous paid and/or volunteer work in A&amp;D services. Documentation must be included with your application. Persons who have completed the Technical Certificate in Substance Abuse Counseling offered by Southwest Tennessee Community College will be able to apply their coursework to these guidelines. (Applicable STCC courses are listed in bold type.) State licensed substance abuse counselors will receive credit-hours applicable to the experiential learning/internship requirement upon submission of their certification credentials. Program Summary A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. B. Coordinated Study (51-58 hours) Professional Core (3 hours) Choose one course: SWRK 2911 Social Response to Human Need COUN 4621 Human Interactions Alcohol and Drug Core (6 hours) Choose two courses: ANTH 4531 Alcohol, Culture and Biology CJUS 3152 Drug Addiction and Alcoholism COUN 4783 Alcohol and Drug Abuse Services PSYC 3507 Alcohol, Drugs and Behavior Statistical Methods (3 hours) Choose one course: EDPR 4541 Fundamentals of Applied Statistical Methods PSYC 3001 Psychological Statistics SOCI 3311 Social Statistics Professional Writing (3 hours) Choose one course: ENGL 3601 Technical and Professional Writing ENGL 3604 Persuasive Writing MGMT 3510 Business Communication * Electives - Alcohol and Drug Abuse Studies (9 hours) Credit may be earned as follows: • By submitting a portfolio describing prior learning in A&amp;D Services, not used to meet the internship requirement (see below). • Taking additional approved courses. Students choose one area of concentration in either Social and Public Services or Administrative Services. Social and Public Services: (27 hours) Courses in this concentration stress issues related to individual development and social behavior, as well as societal responses and aspects of public policy. Group 1. Choose one course: CJUS 4533 Juvenile Delinquency: Theory and Process COUN 4781 Strategies for Crisis Intervention PSYC 3102 Abnormal Psychology SOCI 3501 Sociology of Deviant Behavior SOCI 4852 Sociology of Mental Illness Group 2. Choose three courses: PSYC 3103 Child Psychology PSYC 3106 Social Psychology or SOCI 3701 Individual and Society PSYC 3506 Human Sexuality (Prerequisite: PSYC 1101 &amp; 1102 or 1200) SOCI 3432 Sociology of Gender SOCI 3831 Marriage and the Family SWRK 3902 Human Behavior and Social Environment* (Prerequisites: SWRK 2911, or permission of instructor). Group 3. Choose two courses: ECON 3411 Economics of Social Issues POLS 3213 Introduction to Public Policy POLS 4224 Urban Problems SOCI 3422 Racial and Ethnic Minorities: A Socio-Historical Approach SOCI 4442 Sociology of Poverty SOCI 4541 Sociology of Aging SOCI 4851 Medical Sociology Internship (9 hours) Students completing courses in Social and Public Services will complete 450 hours of supervised therapeutic experience. These hours may be earned in two ways, as follows: 1. UNIV 2110 Field Experience (3) and UNIV 4110 Internship (12) may be taken in 3 or 6 credit increments or 2. Submission of State of Tennessee A&amp;D Counselor Certifications, credited as UNIV 2985 Intermediate A&amp;D Services (3) and UNIV 3985 Advanced A&amp;D Services (12). Administrative Services: (27 hrs) Courses in this concentration are basic to management and administration. Group 1. Choose one course: MGMT 3110 Organization and Management* POLS 3601 Public Administration Group 2. Choose two courses: ACCT 2010 Fundamentals of Accounting I ECON 2010 Introduction to Macroeconomics ECON 2020 Introduction to Microeconomics Group 3. Choose three courses: ACCT 3011 Business Law* ECON 4740 Health Care Economics* FIR 3810 Principles of Risk and Insurance* MGMT 3215 Management of Human Resources* MGMT 4420 Organizational Behavior in Business MGMT 4260 Employee Staffing and Development MKTG 3010 Principles of Marketing* POLS 4207 Health Politics and Policy POLS 4208 Mental Health Policy and Law POLS 4226 Introduction to Nonprofit Organizations Group 4. Choose one course: ECON 3411 Economics of Social Issues POLS 3213 Introduction to the Study of Public Policy POLS 4224 Urban Problems SOCI 3422 Racial and Ethnic Minorities: A Socio-Historical Approach SOCI 4442 Sociology of Poverty SOCI 4541 Sociology of Aging SOCI 4851 Medical Sociology Internship (6 hrs) Students completing courses in Administrative Services must complete 300 hours of experience in an approved setting. These hours may be earned in the following ways. • UNIV 4110 - Internship (6 hours), may be taken in 3 or 6 credit increments, or • UNIV 39xx - Advanced Experiential Learning (6 hours), based upon assessment of a portfolio describing prior experiential learning. C . Thematic Studies (6 hours) D. Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project (3 hrs) [Completed during the final semester] E. Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .