#http://www.memphis.edu/cristal/membership/partners.php
Community Partners - CRISTAL - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Center for Research and Innovation in STEM Teaching and Learning (CRISTAL) About Membership STEM Opportunities Active Grants STEM Hub Membership Steering Committee Liaison Committee STEM Members Community Partners Join Us! Home CRISTAL Membership Community Partners We Couldn't Do Our Work Without Community Partners... Thank You STEM Partners! The Center for Research and Innovation in STEM Teaching and Learning (CRISTAL) is the umbrella organization for Science, Technology, Education and Mathematics (STEM) initiatives on the University of Memphis (UofM) campus. CRISTAL’s charge is to recruit, retain, and prepare the next generation of STEM researchers, educators, and industry professionals. We work to coordinate and advance STEM programs on campus including The West Tennessee STEM Hub , MemphiSTEM and The Tennessee Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (TLSAMP) , including many other programs. CRISTAL also provides monthly STEMinars in the academic year to share information and innovations in STEM education. Be sure to watch our homepage STEMinar updates. To be successful in STEM endeavors, and serve all the stakeholders represented by diverse groups, we must extend beyond the university to schools, service organizations and businesses in the region. Community partners in these endeavors provide an invaluable resource in accomplishing goals, and we are grateful for their generous support in tutoring/mentoring students, providing internships, working with student groups, partnering on grants and sponsoring STEM initiatives across a variety of departments and programs. For quick stats on the UofM please visit: UofM Quick Stats. If you would like to be involved with CRISTAL and/or the West Tennessee STEM Hub, please join our mailing list and help make a difference in our community! A special thanks to the partners supporting STEM education initiatives at the UofM: School Districts 1 Municipal District: Arlington 2 Municipal District: Bartlett 3 Municipal District: Collierville 4 Municipal District: Germantown 5 Municipal District: Lakeland 6 Municipal District: Millington 7 Shelby County Schools 8 SW Rural TN Education Co-Op 9 NW TN Rural Education Consortium Higher Education 1 UT Health Science Center 2 Christian Brothers University 3 UT Martin 4 Dyersburg State Community College 5 Southwest TN Community College Foundations 1 Memphis Bioworks Foundation 2 Peer Power Foundation Corporate 1 Auto Zone 2 Baptist Memorial Health Care Corporation 3 Buckman International 4 EnSafe 5 FedEx Corporation 6 First Horizon National Corporation 7 GTx Inc. 8 International Paper 9 Medtronic 10 MLGW 11 Sharp Manufacturing Company of America 12 Smith &amp; Nephew 13 St. Jude Children's Research Hospital 14 UT/Methodist University 15 Volkswagen Chattanooga Community 1 AgriCenter International 2 Memphis Zoo 3 Martin Institute 4 Pink Palace Museum Professional Societies 1 American Chemical Society 2 American Society of Civil Engineers 3 Construction Specification Institute 4 TN Society of Professional Engineers-TN Eng. Cntr 5 Society of Women Engineers Governmental Entities 1 Memphis Area Chamber of Commerce 2 Naval Support Activity Mid-South 3 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Membership Steering Committee Liaison Committee STEM Members Community Partners Join Us! Give to CRISTAL Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .