#http://www.memphis.edu/internships/universityguidelines.php
University Guidelines - Internships - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Internships Student Employer Faculty Internship Guidelines Events Contact Us Home Internships University Guidelines University Internship Guidelines The University of Memphis values internships for students. This program has been developed to provide students with experiential learning opportunities as an extension of their classroom experience as well as preparation for their future career. What is an Internship? An internship is relevant work experience related to your major or career interests which may occur during the fall, spring or summer sessions. At the University of Memphis, internships may include traditional internships, cooperative education, practicum, clinical and student teaching experiences. Each semester more than 5,000 UofM students are interning in schools, hospitals, businesses, government agencies, and nonprofit organizations. Successful completion of an internship enhances your academic studies and career preparation. What are the Internship Criteria? May be for academic credit or non-academic credit. May be paid or unpaid. Should be related to the student's major or career interest. Credit for internships is subject to the approval of the academic unit. Internship courses typically have prerequisites associated with degree requirements. What are the Academic Requirements? Students must be in good academic standing* memphis.edu/cares/goodstandingtrue.php Students must be making satisfactory progress toward a degree. Students whose academic departments have an internship program are encouraged to complete the departmental requirements as appropriate. Students also have the opportunity to enroll in UNIV 4000 Community Internship course for academic credit. Visit memphis.edu/internships/studentguide/academiccredit.php for more information. *Students should be aware that individual employers or academic units may require a higher GPA than is necessary for good academic standing. Additionally, many employers require criminal background and consumer credit checks and drug tests. Students who have concerns about these employer requirements should speak with a Career Services staff member or academic advisor prior to beginning the internship search process. What are the General Preparations for an Internship Search? Students should prepare for an internship by visiting Career Services . Students can schedule appointments with the Career Services staff for assistance in developing resumes, completing career assessments, and developing interview skills. Online support for resume development and interview skills are also available through Career Services. To schedule an appointment for an internship search, please complete the Internship Appointment Form When Should I Complete an Internship? Students typically participate in internships during their sophomore, junior or senior year. Depending on their academic programs and other circumstances, a few freshmen may participate in internships. How Do I Obtain Information Regarding Internships? Information regarding internships can be gained in the following ways: Departmental academic advisors, faculty, and staff in your academic area of study. Office of Academic Internships: acadinterns@memphis.edu , 901.678.3260 Career Services: careerservices@memphis.edu , memphis.edu/careerservices , 901.678.2239 Students may also learn of internships independently in the community. If you research and learn of an opportunity for an academic internship, consult with your advisor or the Academic Internship office for possible academic credit. Plan early for your internship—consult with the resources listed above to help you achieve an internship that's right for you. Veteran Reconnect Internship Program Learn more about the Veteran Reconnect Internship Program The Washington Center Internship Program Learn more about TWC Green Internship Program Tiger Blue Goes Green Search for Internships Browse Current Internship Opportunities Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .