#http://www.memphis.edu/suapp/people/
SUAPP People - SUAPP - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy About Departments People Resources Home SUAPP People Faculty and Staff The School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy (SUAPP) brings together the Division of City &amp; Regional Planning, Department of Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice, Division of Public &amp; Nonprofit Administration, and the Department of Social Work in order to maximize our efforts in research, education, and engaged scholarship. School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy - Administration Dr. David Cox Interim Head, School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Professor, Public and Nonprofit Administration OFFICE: 201C McCord Hall PHONE: 901.678.3046 EMAIL: davidcox@memphis.edu PhD, Indiana University Effect of urban governance structures on the responsiveness, equity, and effectiveness of public policies and on strategies for inter-organizational collaboration Vickie Peters Business Officer School of Urban Affairs &amp; Public Policy 201A McCord Hall 901.678.1635 vpeters@memphis.edu Division of City and Regional Planning Dr. Charles Santo Associate Professor &amp; Director Graduate Program in City &amp; Regional Planning 210 McCord Hall 901.678.3566 City and Regional Planning casanto@memphis.edu Ph.D., Portland State University Community and economic development, urban economic analysis, public investment, sports and public policy Dr. Reza Banai Professor 217 McCord Hall 901.678.4559 City and Regional Planning rbanai@memphis.edu M.A., Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania Urban design, planning theory, site planning, regional planning Dr. Antonio Raciti Visiting Assistant 221 McCord Hall 901.678.4969 City and Regional Planning araciti@memphis.edu Ph.D., University of Catania Participatory action research, urban design, environmental planning Dr. Ken Reardon Professor 223 McCord Hall 901.678.2610 City and Regional Planning kreardon@memphis.edu Ph.D., Cornell University Neighborhood revitalization, community organizing, participatory action research Dr. Susan L. Roakes Associate Professor 213 McCord Hall 901.678.4560 City and Regional Planning sroakes@memphis.edu Ph.D., University of Wisconsin-Madison Land use planning and policy, community development, neighborhood planning, urban land economics, public schools and city planning Jessica Buttermore Administrative Associate 208 McCord Hall School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy City and Regional Planning 901.678.2161 (p) 901.678.4162 (f) jbuttrmr@memphis.edu Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice Dr. K.B. Turner Associate Professor and Chair 300 McCord Hall 901.678.3397 Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice kbturner@memphis.edu Ph.D., University of Nebraska at Lincoln Crime and punishment, courts, police administration, racial profiling Dr. Bert Burraston Assistant Professor, Graduate Coordinator 319 McCord Hall Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice bbrrston@memphis.edu Dr. Angela Crews Instructor 321 McCord Hall Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice acrews1@memphis.edu Dr. Randolph Dupont Professor 341 McCord Hall 901.678.5484 Criminology and Criminal Justice rdupont@memphis.edu Ph.D., University of Texas at Austin Mental health, substance abuse issues and the criminal justice system, community psychology Clifford Freeman Instructor 327 McCord Hall Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice cfreeman@memphis.edu Dr. David J. Giacopassi Professor 326 McCord Hall 901.678.3398 Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice dgiacpss@memphis.edu Ph.D., University of Notre Dame Law and society, substance abuse, gambling and its effects on quality of life Dr. Amanda Johnson Assistant Professor, Undergraduate Coordinator 315 McCord Hall Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice djhnsn42@memphis.edu Ph.D., Sam Houston State University Organizational failure and deviant organizational cultures, police use of force, police TASER usage, GIS Dr. James McCutcheon Assistant Professor 317 McCord Hall Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice jcmcctch@memphis.edu Ph.D., University of Central Florida Lethal violence, drug markets, firearm availability, crime mapping Mary Tucker Instructor/Coordinator, Advisor 309 McCord Hall Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice mhtucker@memphis.edu Dr. Margaret Vandiver Professor and Graduate Coordinator 325 McCord Hall 901.678.3401 Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice vandiver@memphis.edu Ph.D., Florida State University History of crime and punishment, death penalty, genocide Dr. Lenard Wells Instructor 323 McCord Hall Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice lwells2@memphis.edu Division of Public and Nonprofit Administration Dr. Michael Howell-Moroney Associate Professor and Director 134 McCord Hall 901.678.2640 Public and Nonprofit Administration michael.hm@memphis.edu Dr. Joy Clay Professor and Associate Dean of Interdisciplinary Studies 110 Scates Hall 901.678.3359 Public and Nonprofit Administration joyclay@memphis.edu PhD, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Administrative theory, organizational leadership and evaluation, health policy, public budgeting and finance Dr. David Cox Professor 901.678.5344 Public and Nonprofit Administration davidcox@memphis.edu PhD, Indiana University Effect of urban governance structures on the responsiveness, equity, and effectiveness of public policies and on strategies for inter-organizational collaboration Dr. Leigh Hersey Assistant Professor and Director of Research, Institute for Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership (IPNL) 130 McCord Hall 901.678.1754 Public and Nonprofit Administration lnhersey@memphis.edu Ph.D., Arizona State University Philanthropy, nonprofit fundraising, collaboration Dr. Erin Nemenoff Assistant Professor 138 McCord Hall Public and Nonprofit Administration knmenoff@memphis.edu Ph.D., University of Missouri-Kansas City Nonprofit workforce, nonprofit career awareness, impacts of collegiate experiences on civic engagement during adulthood Jason Sonnenfelt Instructor 136 McCord Hall 901.678.3359 Public and Nonprofit Administration jmsnnfl@memphis.edu Ph.D. Candidate, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech) MPA, University of Nebraska at Omaha Policy Process, Public Administration Theory, Public Management, Governance and Technology Dr. John Topinka Assistant Professor 132 McCord Hall 901.648.3365 Public and Nonprofit Administration jptpinka@memphis.edu Ph. D., Florida International University Fiscal health, budget, organizational performance Dr. Sharon Wrobel Associate Professor 122 McCord Hall 901.678.4720 Public and Nonprofit Administration swrobel@memphis.edu Education Policy, Equity, Finance, Program Evaluation, and Policy Analysis Rebecca Horowitz Administrative Assistant 124 McCord Hall 901.678.3360 Public and Nonprofit Administration rhrowitz@memphis.edu Department of Social Work Dr. Steven Soifer Professor and Chair 230 McCord Hall 901.678.2615 Social Work sdsoifer@memphis.edu Kenya Anderson Instructor/Coordinator 111 Browning Hall 901.678.1734 Social Work kconley@memphis.edu Dr. M. Elena Delavega Assistant Professor 117 McCord Hall 901.678.3270 Social Work mdlavega@memphis.edu Dr. Susan E. Elswick Director of MSW Field Placement 115 McCord Hall 901.678.4722 Social Work selswick@memphis.edu Jim Jones Lecturer 109 Browning Hall Social Work jjones44@memphis.edu Dr. Robin Lennon-Dearing Assistant Professor 120 McCord Hall 901.678.3431 Social Work rlnnndrn@memphis.edu Dr. Susan Neely-Barnes Associate Professor and MSW Program Coordinator 232 McCord Hall 901.678.3438 Social Work snlybrns@memphis.edu Gary Schneider Assistant Professor and BA Program Coordinator 234 McCord Hall 901.678.4503 Social Work gschneid@memphis.edu Dr. Catherine Simmons Associate Professor 114 McCord Hall 901.678.2616 Social Work csmmons7@memphis.edu Lamont Simmons Lecturer 105 Browning Hall 901.678.3198 Social Work, Lambuth ldsmmons@memphis.edu Laura Taylor Director of BA Field Placement and Community Outreach 112 McCord Hall Social Work lctylor1@memphis.edu Dr. Greg Washington Associate Professor 113 McCord Hall Social Work gwshngt1@memphis.edu Kimberly Brown Administrative Assistant 226 McCord Hall 901.678.2616 Social Work kbrwn124@memphis.edu Strengthening Communities providing funding to support the development and implementation of innovative neighborhood-based projects HCD Fellowships Learn more about the Housing and Community Development Fellowships for Graduate Students Reports offering an at-a-glance overview of current engaged scholarship efforts Contact SUAPP Main contacts and location information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .