#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/ccfa/muid.php
MUID - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions MUID MUID (MUID) MUSIC INDUSTRY Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music John Chiego, M.M. Room 123 Music Building In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MUID 4260. Special Topics in Commercial Music. (1-3). Topics are varied and in online class listings. MUID 1001 - Intro Music Technology (1) Basic introduction to music technologies available to the musician; introduction to software, hardware, and basic tenets of MIDI sequencing, notation, composition, studio audio production CR ROM availability, CD/DVD technology. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: MUTC 1001 or MUTC 1008. MUID 2201 - Intro to Music Industry (2) Exploration of all aspects of recording industry; career opportunities; on-stage and behind stage scenes; organization of music business; how music business generates and distributes revenue; day-to-day operations of record labels, studios, publishing, production, promotion, management companies. MUID 3103 - Contmp Songwrt/Prod Technique (3) Process of developing an idea into a commercially viable song and applying production techniques for maximum commercial potential. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2103, or permission of instructor. MUID 3105 - Music Marketing & Management (3) Exploration of tactics, strategies, and challenges in developing and managing careers of recording and touring artists; examination of the role and importance of an artist manager, what they do, and how they impact an artist's career; details of planning an artist's career, budgeting, advertising and publicity, developing marketing materials, and creating a comprehensive marketing plan. PREREQUISITE: MUID 2201, MKTG 3010, MUID 3506. MUID 3506 - Music Distribution (3) Analysis of current and future trends of music distribution; how to build a website, develop a fan-base, utilize direct-to-fan marketing and crowd funding tools, as well as social media and other online resources to engage fans. PREREQUISITE: MUID 2201. MUID 3800 - Recording Studio Technology (3) Detailed examination of basic theory, operational concepts and technologies upon which modern audio production is based; exploration of creative production techniques used to enhance music recordings. PREREQUISITE: sophomore standing, completion of MATH 1830, TECH 1811, and permission of instructor. MUID 3801 - Digital Data Structures (2) Focus on needs of practicing audio engineer. Concepts and practices of using equipment commonly found in electronic music studios with emphasis on digital audio workstation; sampling, synthesis, MIDI, patching, editing, synchronization, signal processing and creative commercial production techniques. PREREQUISITE: computer literacy, MUID 3800 and permission of instructor. NOTE: Basic computer operations will not be covered. Students must be proficient with Macintosh or Windows environment including; basic system operations, data backup functions, file manipulation, data translation and common application programs. MUID 3802 - Audio Rcrd/Non Tech Maj (3) Equipment, techniques, musical production values and technology commonly used in modern audio production. Designed to give music business major an understanding of production process and to enhance studio musician's ability to provide creative services during recording sessions. PREREQUISITE: sophomore standing and permission of instructor. MUID 3901 - Critical Listening I (1) Detailed examination of qualitative aspects of audio; development of critical listening skills including identification of frequency and time domain anomalies, distortions, amplitude changes, dynamics, and spatial positioning in simple audio sources; anatomy of human ear; psychoacoustics. COREQUISITE: MUID 3800 and permission of instructor. MUID 3902 - Critical Listening II (1) Detailed examination of qualitative aspects of audio; refinement of critical listening skills including identification of frequency and time domain anomalies, distortions, amplitude changes, dynamics, and spatial positioning in audio sources PREREQUISITE: MUID 3901 and permission of instructor. MUID 3903 - Critical Listening III (1) Detailed examination of qualitative aspects of audio; refinement of critical listening skills including identification of frequency and time domain anomalies, distortions, amplitude changes, dynamics, and spatial positioning in complex audio sources; evaluation of reverberation and digital effects. PREREQUISITE: MUID 3902 and permission of instructor. MUID 3905 - Digital Audio Workstations (3) In depth examination of Digital Audio Workstation production techniques; emphasis on structure, capabilities, tools and command-sets of DAW. PREREQUISITE: MUID 3800 and permission of instructor. MUID 4201 - Studies in Commercial Music (1-3) Class or supervised individual study of special problems in Commercial Music. May be repeated when course content varies. MUID 4261 - Recrding Stdio Techniques/Prac (3) Explores the basic techniques and concepts of the recording studio; signal flow, microphones and microphone placement, digital recording process, editing tracks, mixing and mastering, MIDI, loop creation and editing, studio problem solving, building studio projects. MUID 4604 - Legal Aspects Music Industry (3) Legal aspects of music including copyright, intellectual property rights as they relate to the music industry; examination of publishing company operations and the role of exploiting musical compositions, performing rights organizations, recording contracts, publishing contracts, artist/manager contracts, artist/talent agent contracts. MUID 4800 - Basic Recording (4) Audio engineering on modern multi-channel recording equipment using commercial production techniques; emphasis on skills of console operation, microphone selection and placement, session set-up, preparing musical instruments for recording, editing, mixing and engineer's artistic involvement in project. (SP). PREREQUISITE: TECH 1811, MUID 3800, and permission of instructor. MUID 4801 - Problems in Commercial Music (1-3) Supervised independent study. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit, but not for purpose of changing original grade. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MUID 4802 - Advanced Recording (3) Advanced instruction in producing contemporary commercial recordings; application of production practice to recording assignments; advanced study of session technique, signal processing, mixing, editing, automation, synchronization, equipment and digital recording. PREREQUISITE: MUID 3801, 4800 and permission of instructor. COREQUISITE: MUID 4822. MUID 4803 - Adv Mix/Master Audio (3) Techniques for creating professional mixes in stereo and multichannel formats utilizing digital audio workstations and analog signal processing; mastering techniques for creating duplication-ready masters; surround microphone techniques and multichannel recording. PREREQUISITE or COREQUISITE: COMM 4825. Completion of JOUR 3900 and 4900 preferred. MUID 4806 - Concert Sound Reinforcement (3) Basic equipment and production techniques for providing live sound services; methods for handling various sized groups in diverse locations. PREREQUISITE: MUID 4800 and permission of instructor. MUID 4810 - Audio Production Practicum (1-3) Supervised audio production activities. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit, but not for the purposes of changing original grade. PREREQUISITE: MUID 4800 and permission of instructor. MUID 4811 - Studio Maintenance Practicum (1-3) Troubleshooting and maintenance activities under the supervision of studio staff. A minimum of 42 clock hours of service for each credit hour is required. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit, but not for the purpose of changing original grade. PREREQUISITE: MUID 4800 and permission of instructor. MUID 4812 - Concert Sound Practicum (1-3) Diverse live sound reinforcement activities. A minimum of 42 clock hours of service for each credit hour is required. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit, but not for the purpose of changing original grade. PREREQUISITE: MUID 4800, 4806 and permission of instructor. MUID 4820 - International Music Business (3) Expands upon fundamental of domestic music business practice covered in previous classes through examination of business practices and infrastructure which drives global music marketplace; emphasis on cultural, media business, legal aspects affecting music industry and its global audience. PREREQUISITE: MUID 2201, senior standing and permission of instructor. MUID 4822 - Applied Lessons in Recording (1) Individual instruction in Advanced Recording. COREQUISITE: MUID 4802. Course Fee: $160. MUID 4825 - Concerts and Touring (3) Concert promotion, advertising, talent buying, routing, budgeting, ticketing, sponsorships, merchandise, settlement, and tour development; examines roles of various players in the touring industry with an emphasis on developing alternative revenue streams for touring artists. (Sp) MUID 4830 - Trends Business Pract/Tech (3) Supervised directed study in cutting edge business practices and technologies impacting the recording industry; emphasis on commercial viability and business impact. Formal presentation of research required. PREREQUISITE: MUID 2201, junior standing and permission of instructor. MUID 4833 - Applied Lessons in Mixing (1) Individual instruction in mixing, mastering, and multi-channel audio production. COREQUISITE: MUID 4803. Course Fee: $160. MUID 4840 - Entrepreneurship Comm Music (3) Creation of preliminary business plan for formation of music industry related business; explores motivation for starting a music business, the music marketplace, naming the business, financing, and operation. PREREQUISITE: MKTG 3010, MGMT 3510, 3410, JOUR 3900, senior standing, and permission of instructor. MUID 4850 - Record Company Operations I (3) Direct participation in administering and operating the University's Blue Tom and High Water record labels; searching for, signing, and developing new artists; preparation of marketing plans and budgets; supervision of graphic design and manufacturing process; retail relations; video production; distribution. PREREQUISITE: MUID 2201, junior standing, and permission of instructor. MUID 4851 - Record Company Operations II (4) The second of two experiential classes focusing on record company operations as they relate to key industry elements including record label departments, A&R, CD distribution/manufacturing, new media, artist relations, contracts, and booking shows; real-world application utilizing the University's Blue Tom and High Water record labels. Students will apply the artist life cycle process from distribution/promotion through touring. MUID 4898 - Sr Proj Music Bus/Rec Technlgy (4) Comprehensive final project which demonstrates mastery of creative, technical, and business elements of commercial music industry. Intended to be taken during the student's last semester before graduation. PREREQUISITE: senior standing and permission of instructor. MUID 4899 - Internship (1-3) One semester of supervised field work experience in selected areas of the commercial music industry. A minimum of 42 clock hours of service for each credit hour is required. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 hours credit, but not for the purpose of changing original grade. PREREQUISITE: placement interview and permission of instructor. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .