#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11387
Assistant Professor in Applied Linguistics (ESL) Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant Professor in Applied Linguistics (ESL) Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC434 Advertised Title Assistant Professor in Applied Linguistics (ESL) Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 001676 Category Full-Time Faculty Department English Position Summary The Department of English at the University of Memphis seeks candidates for a tenure-track position at the Assistant or Associate level to begin Fall 2016 pending availability of funds. The department offers degrees in English at the B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. levels with concentrations in linguistics and ESL at the undergraduate and Masters level, and Applied Linguistics at the doctoral level. Students may complete the M.A. online. The Applied Linguistics Program also offers a 15-credit-hour graduate certificate program in teaching English as a Second Language, conducts summer EFL institutes in Pilsen, the Czech Republic, and Alicante, Spain, and works closely with local school systems. There are possibilities for developing other international programs. See the department web site at for more information. Minimum Position Qualifications Minimum Qualifications: Ph.D. in Applied Linguistics or related area. Evidence of initial scholarly achievement and a clearly articulated research agenda pertinent to TESOL /Applied Linguistics. Desirable Qualifications: Ability to teach a range of courses in second language acquisition, ESL / EFL teaching methodology, and general linguistics courses, including phonetics and phonology. Willingness and ability to teach online courses. Interest in writing grants, developing international programs, and conducting classroom-based research. Experience teaching at the university level. Experience related to computers and language learning and/or technology-enhanced research. Willingness to perform some administrative duties, such as advising, serving on committees, and developing curricula. Background in the theory and teaching of ESL , including K-12 environments and adult education. Special Conditions Applications due December 1, and position may be open until the position is filled. The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents institution, is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Immigration Reform Act Employer. We urge all qualified applicants to apply for this position. Minorities and women are encouraged to apply. Appointment will be based on qualifications as they relate to position requirements without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, disability or veteran status. Posting Date 10/30/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range Commensurate with experience Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Applications for the position must be submitted online. To apply, visit: Through the online application process, candidates will be required to submit a letter of interest, a current CV, e-mail addresses for three references, and copies of college/university transcripts (unofficial copies will be acceptable during the application process). Finalists for the position will be asked to submit a writing sample. Instructions to Applicant regarding references Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Cover Letter Curriculum Vitae References List Unofficial Transcript Optional Documents Other Document 1 Other Document 2 Article Reprint 1