#http://www.memphis.edu/sph/news/
News - SPH - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Public Health About Programs People Students &amp; Alumni News Home SPH News News CEPH ACCreditation SPH is now an accredited School of Public Health! On June 18, we received notice of a five-year term of accreditation from the Council of Education for Public Health (CEPH). Please click here to see the SPH self-study report, and here to see the CEPH final accreditation report. A celebration of the accreditation was held on October 20, with Dr. Jan Young of the Assisi Foundation providing the address; please click here to see photos from this great event! Fulbright scholarship awarded to Dr. ken ward Dr. Ken Ward, professor and director of the Division of Social and Behavioral Sciences, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship for the 2016 Spring semester. He will be a visiting scholar at the Royal College of Surgeons in Dublin, where he will collaborate on research and training activities related to smoking cessation in patients with chronic medical conditions. public health community scholarships for 2016 SPH is accepting now applications from current MPH students for the 2016 Public Health Community Scholar Fellowships. Please click here for fellowship details, application instructions and required forms. Applications and advisor recommendations must be received by Dr. Levy on or before December 20, 2015. nahse 2015 case competition Each year, students from Masters programs across the United States send students to compete in the Everett V Fox Case Competition at the National Association of Health Services Executives (NAHSE) Annual Meeting. This year's competition was held in New Orleans, LA, October 13-16, 2015. Teams were given a case based on the Kaiser Permanente Georgia region and asked to improve member experience, increase access to behavioral health, decrease expenses, and consider building a new hospital in the region. The University of Memphis was represented by Kenric Duncan (team captain), Nathalie Occean, and John Baldwin. Dr. Paige Powell, Assistant Professor of Health Systems Management and Policy, was the team's advisor. The University of Memphis team advanced to the finals and placed 5th overall. The University of Memphis also received the Viewer's Choice Award after receiving the most votes among all of the finalists. Please click here to see the video featuring the award-winning team! University of Memphis creates jd/mph degree program Public health, public policy and issues of health disparities are at the forefront of many of America's unresolved social problems. Rising health care costs pose a growing threat to the economy, while for some, access to even the most basic health care is tenuous. Lawyers play a central role in society's approach to these public health issues. However, their effectiveness is frequently limited by an inadequate knowledge of public health matters. To close that educational gap, the University of Memphis has created the JD/MPH program. The program offers students the opportunity to pursue JD (juris doctor) and MPH (master of public health) degrees simultaneously. Students will have the ability to complete both degrees in four years of full-time study, a year less than it would take to complete each degree separately. For more information about the program, admissions, and application please click here . SPH offers new certificate in population health A graduate certificate in population health can be earned in two semesters, and course credit may be applied to the MPH degree. Course offerings include: PUBH 7150 Biostatistical Methods (Fall) PUBH 7170 Epidemiology in Public Health (Fall) HADM 7105 Health Policy and Organization of Health Services (Spring) PUBH 7120 Environmental Health (Spring) PUBH 7160 Social and Behavioral Science Principles (Spring) Please click here for more information. Executive mha to launch in may 2016 A new two-year Executive MHA option will combine on-line education with seven weekends of learning on campus. Applications are being accepted now in HAMPCAS , with a May 2016 start date. resources and information SPH Photo Gallery SPH news archive Apply Now Contact Us Support SPH Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/11/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .