#http://www.memphis.edu/philosophy/people/bios/pleshette-dearmitt.php
Pleshette DeArmitt - Philosophy - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Philosophy BA Graduate People Research News &amp; Events Resources SJP Contact People Core Faculty Visiting Scholars Instructors Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Home Philosophy People Pleshette DeArmitt About Professor DeArmitt It is with great sadness that the Department of Philosophy announces the sudden passing of Professor Pleshette DeArmitt, Chair and Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Memphis. Professor DeArmitt was a beloved teacher, mentor, and colleague. A leading scholar in the philosophical work of Julia Kristeva, Prof. DeArmitt joined the department in 2006, after holding visiting appointments at Grinnell College and Villanova University. She received her MA and PhD from DePaul University and her BA from Duquesne University. She had served as Chair of the Department of Philosophy since 2013. Among her many honors and leadership positions, Prof. DeArmitt was a 2010 recipient of the American Post-doctoral Research Fellowship, awarded by the American Association of University Women (AAUW). She also served as the President of Société Américaine de Philosophie de Langue Française (SAPLF) and on the Committee on the Status of Women for the Society for Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy (SPEP). Prof. DeArmitt's research and teaching interests included contemporary continental philosophy, feminist theory, psychoanalysis, and social and political thought. She regularly taught undergraduate courses in feminist theory and 19th- and 20th-century continental philosophy. She taught graduate courses on Rousseau's moral psychology, Freud's metapsychology, Kristeva's philosophy of bios, and themes in contemporary continental philosophy. Prof. DeArmitt published scholarly articles on Derrida, Kofman, and Kristeva in journals such as Mosaic, Parallax, Philosophy Today, Research in Phenomenology, and The Southern Journal of Philosophy. She was the author of The Right to Narcissism: A Case for an Im-possible Self-Love (Fordham University Press, 2013) and the co-editor of Sarah Kofman's Corpus (SUNY Press, 2008). She is survived by her husband, Kas Saghafi, also Associate Professor of Philosophy, and her beloved daughter Seraphine. Professor DeArmitt (PhD, DePaul University, Chicago) joined the department in 2006. She also holds an MA from DePaul University and a BA from Duquesne University. Her research and teaching interests include contemporary continental philosophy, feminist theory, psychoanalysis, and social and political thought. She has published articles on Derrida, Kofman, and Kristeva in journals such as Mosaic, Parallax, Philosophy Today, Research in Phenomenology, and The Southern Journal of Philosophy. She is the the author of The Right to Narcissism: A Case for an Im-possible Self-Love (Fordham University Press, 2013) and is the co-editor of Sarah Kofman's Corpus (SUNY Press, 2008). She is also the editor of "Freudian Futures," the 2013 Spindel Supplement to The Southern Journal of Philosophy, a memorial issue of Epoché on Jacques Derrida (2006). She is also the co-translator of Derrida's "A Europe of Hope" (2006) and "Aletheia" (2010). Having previously held visiting positions at Grinnell College and Villanova University, Dr. DeArmitt has taught numerous undergraduate courses in philosophy and gender theory. Since arriving at Memphis, she has taught graduate courses on Rousseau's moral psychology, Freud's metapsychology, Kristeva's philosophy of bios, and themes in recent Continental thought. Dr. DeArmitt was the recipient of an American Post-doctoral Research Fellowship (2010-11), awarded by the American Association of University Women. She is also serving as the current President of Société Américaine de Philosophie de Langue Française (SAPLF). Dr. DeArmitt is currently serving on SPEP's Committee on the Status of Women (2013-2015). Selected Publications Books and Collections The Right to Narcissism: A Case for an Im-possible Self-Love (New York: Fordham University Press, 2013). Editor, "Freudian Futures," Spindel Conference Supplement, Southern Journal of Philosophy 51 (2013). Issue found here. Sarah Kofman's Corpus, eds. Tina Chanter and Pleshette DeArmitt (Albany: SUNY Press, 2008). Epoché, eds. Pleshette DeArmitt and Kas Saghafi, "An Entrusted Responsibility: Reading and Remembering Jacques Derrida," vol. 10, iss. 2 (Spring 2006). Articles/Chapters "Cascade of Remainders," Derrida Today 7, 1 (forthcoming May 2014). "Julia Kristeva's The Severed Head," Journal of French and Francophone Philosophy 12, 1 (2013). "Conjuring Bodies: Kofman's Lessons on Death," Parallax 58 (January-March 2011). "Resonances of Echo: A Derridean Allegory," Mosaic 41, 3 (2009). "Sarah Kofman's Art of Affirmation, or the 'Non-illusory Life of an Illusion'," in Sarah Kofman's Corpus (Albany: SUNY Press, 2008). Recent Presentations "Cascade of Remainders: Derrida on Ipseity and the Logic of the Remainder," Featured Session: "What Remains--Of Mastery and Ipseity," 3rd International Derrida Today Conference, University of California, Irvine (July 13, 2012). "Kristeva's Radical Revaluation of (Women's) Work," The Kristeva Circle group session meeting, American Philosophical Association, Atlanta, GA (December 2012). Invited Roundtable Speaker, Kristeva's Recent Work, The Kristeva Circle, Siena College, Loudonville, New York (October 2012). "Narcissism of Minor Sexual Differences," philoSOPHIA: A Feminist Society, Miami University, Oxford, OH (April 2012). People Core Faculty Visiting Scholars Instructors Emeritus Faculty Graduate Students Staff Apply to the Graduate Program Want to pursue a MA or PhD in Philosophy? Find out how to apply. Online B.A. Want to pursue your college degree and manage your busy lifestyle? Experience online classes at the UofM. Pre-law Advising Are you interested in a career in the legal profession? Consider a degree in Philosophy! Support the Department Find out how you can support the Department of Philosophy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/28/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .