#http://www.memphis.edu/cares/about.php
About - CARES - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services (CARES) About Academic Status Fresh Start Orientation Early Intervention Staff Home CARES About Think of us as your built-in safety net The Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services (CARES) is the safety net you might never need, but it's there just in case. Even some of the strongest students can face difficulties in their college years, and CARES is here to support you all the way. CARES Mission The mission of the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services (CARES) is to increase retention and graduation rates by enriching the academic progression of academically at-risk students. CARES assists students with identifying and overcoming personal concerns, academic deficiencies and life difficulties that could continue to impair their chances of succeeding in college, while helping them develop good study habits, self-management, and decision-making skills that increase retention and graduation rates for college students. The Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services "CARES" about the academic and personal well-being of students and exists to partner with them in reaching their academic goals. HOW WE HELP Intrusive Counseling CARES Counselors and Academic Coaches provide academic counseling and academic support services for students. These services may include course selection, goal setting, time management, and developing strategies and action plans for personal and academic success of college students. CARES Counselors and Academic Coaches work closely with faculty and departments to refer students to the University's support services as appropriate to the individual student's needs. Academic Support CARES maintains study and computer labs to provide academic enrichment and support to students to augment classroom instruction. CARES students are strongly encouraged to spend time in the CARES support labs as part of their academic requirements. In addition the CARES support personnel counsels and/or refers students to other campus services for assistance. Academic Success Seminar (ACAD 2200) Students who are on Academic Probation are required to enroll in a one-hour course, ACAD 2200: Academic Success Seminar, and work with a Retention Counselor from the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services. The goals of these activities are to help the student introspectively identify the barriers to their success and to help the student avoid Academic Suspension. The course is taught by CARES Retention Counselors. Early Intervention Reporting The Early Intervention Program at The University of Memphis is committed to the success of all students. It was instituted as a means to inform and focus on students who may be experiencing academic or personal difficulties and provide available campus resources to help ensure their best chance for success in their coursework. An integral part of the Early Intervention Program is the facilitation of a communication loop between divisions, departments, programs, advisors and faculty to effectively intervene when a student is at risk of failing their academic courses. The Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services is responsible for administrative oversight of this program. Academic Fresh Start An Academic Fresh Start is a plan of academic forgiveness provided for undergraduate students who have gained maturity through extended experience outside higher education institutions and have demonstrated better than average academic performance following their return to the University of Memphis. It allows for the calculation of the applicant's grade point average and credit hours toward graduation to be based only on work completed after returning to college. This Tennessee Board of Regents policy is administered at the University of Memphis by the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services. Student Progress Reporting Through various mediums, including personal meetings, email reporting, Skype and telephone appointments, CARES Counselors and Academic Coaches interface on an ongoing basis with students who are on Academic Warning, continuing on Academic Probation or returning from Academic Suspension. Together, the Counselor/Coach and student will discuss the student's academic progress, upcoming academic work, study skills, time management strategies and other life situations that might potentially impede the student's academic success. Helpful Hints for Academic Success Resources that may help you obtain academic success. ACAD 1100 Everything new students need to know to be successful. Fresh Connections Learn more about Fresh Connections! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .