#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11384
Locksmith II Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Locksmith II Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number HMAE606 Advertised Title Locksmith II Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 002798 Category Staff (Hourly/Monthly) Department Physical Plant Minimum Position Qualifications High school diploma or GED and five years of relevant work experience. Special Conditions The initial screening date is November 16, 2015. Work Schedule Monday &#8211; Friday 7:30 a.m. – 3:30 p.m On-call availability required for after hour emergency repairs. Posting Date 10/30/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range $15.00 - $16.00 per hour Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Working Conditions While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to talk or hear. The employee frequently is required to stand; walk; use hands to handle, or feel; and reach with hands and arms. The employee is occasionally required to sit; climb or balance; and stoop, kneel, or crouch. The employee must frequently lift and/or move up to 10 pounds and occasionally lift and/or move up to 25 pounds. Additional Working Conditions Special Instructions to Applicants All applications must be submitted online at workforum.memphis.edu Applicants must complete all applicable sections of the online application in order to be considered for a position. Please upload a cover letter, resume, and reference list after completing your application, if required by the system. Candidates who are called for an interview must notify the Department of Human Resources in writing of any reasonable accommodation needed prior to the date of the interview. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Job Duties The duties and responsibilities listed are intended to describe the general nature and level of work to be performed in this position and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list of the requirements of this job. Duties & Responsibilities Assists with the design of door installations. Duties & Responsibilities Installs and repairs locks, panic hardware, door closers, metal doors, hinges, etc. Duties & Responsibilities Maintains computer and paper records of keying systems. Duties & Responsibilities Orders parts and supplies. Duties & Responsibilities Performs maintenance on the campus card reader system. Duties & Responsibilities Re-keys and makes master keys of university locks. Duties & Responsibilities Other related duties as assigned. Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). * Do you have a valid driver&#x27;s license? YES NO Applicant Documents Required Documents Optional Documents Resume Cover Letter References List