#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/centers/
Centers - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources Centers Centers Center for Applied Psychological Research Gambling Clinic Psychological Services Center Institute for Intelligence Systems Home Department of Psychology Centers Centers Centers in the Department of Psychology exist for the purpose of enriching the lives of those on campus, in the Memphis community and beyond. From helping someone struggling with a gambling problem to advancing the capabilities of intelligence systems, the work accomplished in these centers has had a positive effect on hundreds of individuals and families over several decades. Center for Applied Psychological Research (CAPR) Founded in 1984, CAPR is one of the original Tennessee Centers of Excellence. In 1988 the Center was designated as an Accomplished Center of Excellence in recognition of the consistently high quality research, teaching and service. The original CAPR proposal set the following three goals: to achieve national prominence in the application of psychological knowledge to individual and social problems to increase the level of extramural funding of the Department of Psychology in order to facilitate research and training to increase the number of trained psychologists able to apply relevant knowledge to individual and social problems In its 31 years of existence CAPR has far exceeded all benchmarks set for its performance. Faculty have expended millions of dollars in extramural funding, published thousands of scholarly works, been elected or appointed to many professional offices and won numerous national and local awards. For more information "Click Here" Gambling Clinic Since 1997 the Gambling Clinic has helped hundreds of individuals from around the country gain control of their gambling. Our work is based on comprehensive research performed by the Clinic and by research teams from around the world. The Gambling Clinic was selected as the gambling treatment facility for the Tennessee Department of Health. If you are interested in having someone talk about gambling to your group or attend a health fair or other community event, please let us know. If you have questions or would like to set up an appointment for counseling, contact us. Location/Hours Psychology Building Psychological Services Center, Room 126 400 Innovation Drive (one block south of Central Avenue) 9 a.m. until 9 p.m. Monday through Thursday 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. Friday The Clinic is usually open even when University classes are not in session. 901.678.7867(STOP) gambling@memphis.edu Facebook Twitter@GamblingClinic You will receive confidential treatment that is suited to your particular needs. Whether your goal is to gamble less, gamble differently or to completely stop gambling, we will help you achieve that goal. Treatment is typically five to seven one-hour sessions. Cost is $150; however, no one is turned away because of inability to pay. Psychological Services Center The Psychological Services Center provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families of the greater Memphis metropolitan area. Fees for services are based on the client's total family income. Students at the University of Memphis who are enrolled at least part time are eligible for a special low fee. Also, University of Memphis faculty and staff receive a substantial discount for all services. For more information click here. Location/Hours Psychology Building Psychological Services Center, Room 126 400 Innovation Drive (one block south of Central Avenue) 9 a.m. until 9 p.m. Monday through Thursday 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. Friday The Clinic is usually open even when University classes are not in session. Therapists are on duty during operating hours to handle emergency situations. 901.678.2147 Psychological Services Center's Web Information "Click Here" Counseling Services Adult Individual counseling is provided for clients who are experiencing interpersonal difficulties at home or at work. Problems such as depression, anxiety, phobias, sleep disturbances, adjustment problems and stress-related difficulties are commonly treated. The Center also has a state-of-the-art program on the treatment of problem gambling. Additionally, marital/couples' therapy is provided for couples who are experiencing difficulties related to conflict resolution, spouse abuse, sexual dysfunctions or other problems requiring joint intervention. Child The Center provides services for children experiencing difficulties at school or at home. Services include individual counseling, consultation and other interventions for use in the school and/or home. Center staff who specialize in dealing with childhood problems work closely with children, their parents or guardians and school personnel in the management of the child's difficulties. Family Counseling is provided for problems requiring family interventions. Therapists trained in family therapy provide counseling for problems resulting from interpersonal conflicts, blended families' issues and adjustment to divorce. Health Psychology Individual and group counseling is provided to aid clients in such activities as smoking cessation, weight loss, pain and headache management, adjustment to chronic illness and traumatic loss and stress reduction. Therapists trained in medical psychology and cognitive-behavioral interventions work with individuals experiencing problems in such areas to promote a more healthy lifestyle. Specialty Services Psychoeducational Evaluation Services include the evaluation of intelligence, achievement, personality, psychomotor and other skills and abilities in children, adolescents and adults. The staff work closely with school personnel in the evaluation of children suspected of being eligible for special education (e.g., children with learning disabilities, mental retardation, giftedness, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder or behavioral disorders). In conjunction with the University of Memphis Office for Students with Disabilities, the Center provides evaluation and consultation for students experiencing academic problems in college. Elimination Disorders Screening and treatment are provided for children with problems of enuresis or encopresis. The emphasis of the program is on training parents to deal with the frustrations of soiling or bedwetting and to implement behavioral treatment procedures for the child in the home. Center's Mission Train future psychologists Provide affordable help to those in need of psychology practice Promote research to support the empirical bases of psychology practice Students in the Clinical and School Psychology doctoral programs, as well as those in the specialist program in School Psychology, are the professional staff in the Center. Our training faculty, which includes our Psychology and adjunct faculty chosen for their professional expertise, closely supervise the services provided by these advanced graduate students. The direct result of this training is affordable psychological services for the citizens of Memphis and the surrounding communities. Every year hundreds of individuals and families who could not otherwise afford psychological assistance receive quality services at a reduced fee. For more information Click Here Institute for Intelligence Systems The Institute for Intelligence Systems (IIS) is an interdisciplinary enterprise comprised of researchers and students from the fields of cognitive psychology, biology, computer science, mathematics, physics, neuroscience, education, linguistics, philosophy, anthropology, engineering, business and communication sciences and disorders. The IIS is dedicated to advancing the state of knowledge and capabilities of intelligent systems, including psychological, biological and artificial systems. Intelligent systems differ from conventional technologies in that they are fast, dynamic, flexible and adaptive. Researchers in the IIS have developed technologies in the cutting-edge areas of cognitive science, artificial intelligence, complex dynamic systems, neural networks, evolutionary modeling, massively parallel systems and biological systems. The IIS has received approximately $30 million in external funding over the last decade and has partnered with numerous universities and corporations. Researchers affiliated with the IIS have received funding from the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the Institute of Education Sciences and numerous other agencies and corporate partners. In 2007 the IIS won the prestigious Academic Excellence Award from the Tennessee Board of Regents. Talks The Cognitive Science Semina r began in 1985 and is now course number 7514/8514, which is cross listed in Psychology, Computer Science and Philosophy. Each semester the seminar focuses on a different topic in Cognitive Science. Public talks take place every week during the semester at 4 p.m. on Wednesdays. The Cognitive Brown Bag is the primary meeting of the Cognitive are of the Department of Psychology. The meeting takes place at noon during the semester. The Computer Science Colloquium is held on most Friday afternoons during the spring and fall semesters. These talks involve lectures on Computer Science topics given by a variety of people, including University of Memphis faculty, visiting faculty from other schools, graduate students and members of industry. Projects For a list of current projects click here. Centers Centers Center for Applied Psychological Research Gambling Clinic Psychological Services Center Institute for Intelligence Systems Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .