#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/coursedescrip/ccfa/mutc.php
MUTC - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Home UGCatalog Course Descriptions MUTC MUTC (MUTC) MUSIC THEORY AND COMPOSITION Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music John Chiego, M.M. Room 123B, Music Building Placement in the Music Theory sequence for undergraduates will be determined through examination. NOTE: Courses in Composition and Electronic Music may be repeated for credit but not for the purpose of improving the grade originally earned. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MUTC 4260-69. Special Topics in Theory and Composition. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listing. MUTC 1001 - Basic Music Theory (3) For students who plan to major in music but do not meet minimum standards for MUTC 1008. Not allowable as credit toward the satisfaction of requirements for the major or minor. Two laboratory hours per week. MUTC 1008 - Music Theory I (3) Fundamentals of pitch and rhythmic notation; scales, intervals, diatonic, triads, and seventh chords in major and minor keys; principles of voice leading and harmonic progressions; Roman numeral and lead sheet notation. (F). PREREQUISITE: Theory placement exam and permission of department. MUTC 1009 - Music Theory II (3) Cadences, phrases and periods; nonchord tones, four-voice part writing with diatonic seventh chords; secondary functions. (SP). PREREQUISITE: completion of MUTC 1008 with a grade of C- or better. MUTC 1010 - Aural Theory I (1) Practice of harmonic and melodic intervals to the perfect fifth; rhythmic performance and dictation in simple meters, with division of two through eight to the beat; reading of treble and bass clefs using fixed-Do solfege; one-part melodic dictation. (F). PREREQUSITE: theory placement exam and permission of department. MUTC 1011 - Aural Theory II (1) Practice of harmonic and melodic intervals to the octave; rhythmic performance and dictation in simple and compound meters, with division of two through eight to the beat; one-part melodic dictation and qualities of triads; simple harmonic dictations. (SP). PREREQUISITE: completion of MUTC 1010 with a grade of C- or better. MUTC 2008 - Music Theory III (3) Modulations; classical forms, mode mixture, augmented sixth chords, extended tertian chords and late 19th century tonality. (F). PREREQUISITE: completion of MUTC 1009 with a grade of C- or better. MUTC 2010 - Aural Theory III (1) Reading in treble, bass, alto, and tenor clefs; playing and singing simultaneously using two or three of the four clefs; singing triads and dominant sevenths in all inversions up and down; harmonic dictations with inversions; continued rhythmic study. (F). PREREQUISITE: completion of MUTC 1011 with a grade of C- or better. MUTC 2103 - Theory Jazz/Pop/Commercial I (3) Basic harmonic structures, chord symbol realization, altered scales and modes, altered and extended chords, notation, articulation, rhythmic patterns; aural practice and analysis of written and recorded jazz and pop music; transcription of recorded materials. Three lecture hours, one laboratory hour per week. (F). PREREQUISITE: MUTC 1009, MUAP 1116. (F) MUTC 2501 - Composition (1-3) Class instruction in free composition; emphasis on smaller forms. May be repeated for additional credit. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 1008. NOTE: Composition taught as applied music. Students receive the equivalent of one hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $320 per semester. MUTC 2502 - Composition (1-3) Works for piano, voice, chorus, and small ensembles; study of style and analysis of works from music literature. May be repeated for additional credit. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2501 or permission of instructor. NOTE: Composition is taught as applied music. Students receive equivalent of one hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $320.00 per semester. MUTC 2503 - Comp/Arrange Jazz/Commercial I (2) Emphasis on small instrumental and vocal works, basic style and form. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2501, or permission of instructor. FEE: $320. MUTC 2504 - Comp/Arrange Jazz/Commrcial II (2) Emphasis on stage and jazz band arranging techniques. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 hours credit. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2503, or permission of instructor. FEE: $320. MUTC 2511 - Electronic Music I (2) Concepts of electronic music including synthesizer operation, MIDI sequencing, and sampling. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2008 or permission of instructor. FEE: $320. MUTC 3008 - Music Theory IV (3) Introduction and use of 20th century materials and techniques; post-tonal theory; indeterminacy, minimalism, electronic and computer music. (SP). PREREQUISITE: completion of MUTC 2008 with a grade of C- or better. MUTC 3009 - Aural Theory IV (1) Reading in treble, bass, alto, and tenor clefs; playing and singing simultaneously using two or three of the four clefs; identification of isolated triads and dominant sevenths in four parts and identification of triads in root position and inversions in traditional harmonic progressions; two-part melodic dictation in various clefs with implied harmony; further rhythmic study, including basic polyrhythms. (SP). PREREQUISITE: completion of MUTC 2010 with a grade of C- or better. MUTC 3010 - Aural Theory V (1) Aural exploration of basic forms, cadences and styles of music; detailed aural analysis of modulatory elements within a piece. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 3008, 3009. (F). (S/U) MUTC 3101 - Orchestration (3) Basic study of instruments of orchestra and band, terminology and techniques pertaining to that study; practical application by scoring for small and large instrumental combinations (F) PREREQUISITE: MUTC 3008, 3009, or permission of instructor. MUTC 3102 - Analysis of Tonal Music (3) In-depth analysis of tonal music, building on techniques mastered in Theory I-IV, and including a thorough study of common-practice era forms. Repertoire will vary. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 3008, 3009. (F) MUTC 3109 - Analysis of Post-Tonal Music (3) In-depth analysis of tonal music, building on techniques mastered in Theory I-IV. Repetoire will vary. PREREQUISITE: MITC 3008, 3009. (Sp - even years) MUTC 3201 - Jazz Arrange/Orchestration (3) Arranging/orchestration for small to large ensembles in jazz and commercial music styles; idiomatic problems with vocalists, rhythm, electronic, wind, and string instruments in various jazz styles. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2103. MUTC 3501 - Comp/Arrang/Jazz/Comrcial III (2) Individual instruction for mixed ensembles and studio groups in various jazz and studio styles, standard and extended forms; introduction to line writing. May be repeated for additional credit. NOTE: Composition is taught as applied music. Students receive the equivalent of one hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $320.00 per semester. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2504, or permission of instructor. MUTC 3825 - Material/Techniques Improv I (3) Development of improvisation skills on solo instruments or voice; basic chord patterns, scales, arpeggios; performance with rhythm section. (F). PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. MUTC 3826 - Material/Techniques Improv II (3) Analysis of melodic structures; motivic fragmentation and sequencing; extended harmonic structures, performance in small combo settings. (F). PREREQUISITE: MUTC 3825, or permission of instructor. MUTC 3827 - Material/Techniques Improv III (3) Analysis and performance of music in standard styles, including bebop, Latin, fusion, and jazz/rock; contemporary mainstream, pan-chromatic, and free-form improvisation; performance with combos and large jazz ensembles. (F). PREREQUISITE: MUTC 3826, or permission of instructor. MUTC 4106 - Composition Procsses 20th Cent (3) Analysis and imitative writing of major composers of the twentieth century, from Debussy through the present. (SP-even years) MUTC 4202 - Music Theory Review (3) Advanced course in theory, counterpoint, and analysis of literature. Contrapuntal and harmonic techniques. Research; theoretical problems from pedagogical point of view; writing in strict and free styles. Recommended as review course for graduate students. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. (F) MUTC 4204 - Indiv Study Music Theory/Comp (1-3) Directed individual study in selected areas of music theory and composition chosen in consultation with instructor. May be repeated for credit but not for the purpose of changing a grade. MUTC 4205 - 16th Cent Counterpoint (2) Study of contrapuntal techniques of the sixteenth century. (SP-odd years) MUTC 4206 - 18th Cent Counterpoint (2) Study of contrapuntal techniques of the eighteenth century. (SP - even years) MUTC 4209 - Advanced Orchestration (3) Continuation of MUTC 3101. Orchestration of works from nineteenth and twentieth centuries for full orchestra; study of representative orchestral scores from romantic and contemporary periods. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 3101. MUTC 4260 - The Beethoven Symphonies (3) Detailed analysis of the nine Beethoven symphonies. MUTC 4261 - Theory & Musicianship I (3) Analyze and understand the concepts of music which include writing, reading, and listening to music in a more advanced way. MUTC 4264 - Music Theory:Popular Styles (3) Popular styles of the 20th and 21st centuries. MUTC 4501 - Composition (3) Composition in varied forms for large and small ensembles and solo instruments; analysis of contemporary works and practical application of techniques. May be repeated for additional credit. NOTE: Composition taught as applied music. Students receive equivalent of one hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $320.00 per semester. PREREQUISITE: recommendation of upper division examining committee. MUTC 4502 - Comp For Non-Comp Major (3) Class instruction in free composition for students not majoring in composition. Practical experience in idea generation, form, development, and instrumentation. NOTE: Composition taught as applied music. Students receive equivalent of one hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $320 per semester. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 3008. MUTC 4503 - Comp/Arrange Jazz/Commrcial IV (3) Individual instruction with emphasis on advanced line writing, fusion and contemporary mainstream styles, writing for full studio orchestra. May be repeated for additional credit. NOTE: Composition is taught as applied music. Students receive the equivalent of one hour lesson per week. Fee for this instruction is $320.00 per semester. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 3501, or permission of instructor. MUTC 4504 - Intro Film/Video Score (3) Basic problems of writing music for film and video: commercial and industrial productions, shorts and full length features, selection of appropriate styles, creating a master music list, writing from a cue sheet; introduction to editing room equipment: conversion of film frames to video, use of SMPTE time code and synchronization equipment, MIDI sequencer scoring from a digital audio workstation; project assignments in film and video formats. (Offered alternate years). PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2511, MUTC 3501, and either MUID 3801 or MUTC 4511 or 4505, or permission of instructor. MUTC 4511 - Electronic Music II (2) Concepts of electronic music including synthesizer operation, MIDI sequencing, and sampling. Course includes basic instruction in MaxMSP. The two hours credit earned from this course may be used as composition credit toward the composition concentration. FEE: $320. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 2008 or permission of instructor. MUTC 4512 - Electronic Music III (2) Continuation of MUTC 4511. Emphasis on individual compositional projects. May be repeated for credit, but only two hours may be used as composition credit in composition concentration. FEE: $320. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 4511. MUTC 4599 - Senior Composition Recital (4) Integration course for which students prepare and present a concert of their music and an accompanying descriptive paper. Taught as applied music, individual instruction. PREREQUISITE: a minimum of 4 hours in MUTC 4501 and permission of the instructor. MUTC 4896 - Sr Prj Jazz Studio/Comp Arrang (4) Project must include original compositions and original arrangements of existing compositions in a variety of styles. Project should include live performance, recorded album tracks, and film music. PREREQUISITE: MUTC 4503, 4504, or permission of instructor. CourseDescriptions College Of Arts and Sciences AreoSpace Studies (AERO) African and American Studies (AAAS) Anthropology (ANTH) Biology College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) Chemistry(CHEM) City and Regional Planning (PLAN) Computer Science (COMP) Criminology and Criminal Justice (CJUS) Earth Sciences (ESCI) Emergency Management (EMGT) English (ENGL) Environmental Studies (ENVR) Health Administration (HADM) History (HIST) International Studies (INTL) Judaic Studies (JDST) Mathematics (MATH) Military Science (ARMY) Navy Science (NAVY) Philosophy (PHIL) Physics and Material Science (PHYS) Political Science (POLS) Psychology (PSYC) Public and Nonprofit Administration (PADM) Religious Studies (RLGN) Social Work (SWRK) Sociology (SOCI) Women's Studies (WMST) Foreign Languages and Literature Arabic (ARAB) Chinese (CHIN) Classics (CLAS) French (FREN) German (GERM) Greek (GREK) Hebrew (HEBR) Italian (ITAL) Japanese (JAPN) Languages and Literature (LALI) Latin (LATN) Portuguese (PORT) Russian (RUSS) Spanish (SPAN) Fogelman College of Business and Economics Accountancy (ACCT) Business Administration (BA) Economics (ECON) Finance, Insurance and Real Estate (FIR) Management Information Systems (MIS) Management (MGMT) Marketing (MKTG) Supply Chain Management Science (SCMS) College of Communication and Fine Arts Architecture (ARCH) Art (ART) Art History (ARTH) Communication (COMM) Communication/Fine Arts (CCFA) Dance (DANC) Interior Design (IDES) Journalism (JOUR) Theatre (THEA) Music Applied Music (MUAP) Music Appreciation (MUS) Music Education (MUSE) Music History, Literature, and Appreciation (MUHL) Music Industry (MUID) Music Theory and Composition (MUTC) Sacred Music (MUSA) College of Education, Health, and Human Services Counseling and Personnel Services (COUN) Educational Psychology and Research (EDPR) Dietetics (NUTR) Health and Human Performance (EXSS) Health and Sports Science (HMSE) Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Health Promotion (HPRO) Physical Education Activities (PHED) Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) Early Childhood Education (ECED) Educational Services (EDSV) Elementary Education (ELED) Instruction and Curriculum Leadership (ICL) Instructional Design and Technology (IDT) Leadership (LEAD) Reading (RDNG) Special Education (SPED) Herff College of Engineering Biomedical Engineering (BIOM) Civil Engineering (CIVL) Electrical and Computer Engineering (EECE) Engineering (ENGR) Mechanical Engineering (MECH) Technology (TECH) Loewenberg School of Nursing Nursing (NURS) University College (UNIV) Child Development and Family Studies (CDFS) Merchandising (MRCH) Legal Studies (LEGL) University College (UNIV) Kemmons Wilson School Sport and Leisure Commerce (SLC) Sport and Leisure Management (SLS) Hospitality and Resort Management (HPRM) Independent Programs Orientation Program (ACAD) University Honors Program (UNHP) University of Memphis Libraries (LBRY) Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .