#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/engl.php
ENGL Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning ENGL Courses ENGLISH (ENGL) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ENGL 7020-49–8020-49. Special Topics in English. (3). Topics are announced in online course listings. ENGL 6500 - Lang Skills For Intrntl (3) English majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ENGL 6533 - Issues/Techniques/Efl (3) Skills, background, and approaches needed to teach English outside the United States. ENGL 6610 - Creative Writing/Translation (3) Study and practice in translating poetry, fiction, or non-fiction; use of creative writing as tool in teaching of foreign language. May be repeated for credit with change of topic or genre. PREREQUISITE: 3000-level creative writing workshop in the same genre (fiction, poetry, or creative non-fiction), and permission of instructor. ENGL 6611 - English Studies/Internl Locale (3-6) Blended course of on-campus and national or international study and research in specific areas related to topic culminating in an integrative experience through individual and/or group projects. Varied topics may require studies of relationships of culture to text and language, history, analysis, documentation, and/or production of test and language. Course may be repeated, but only 6 credit hours may be earned towards a degree. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ENGL 6618 - Document Design (3) Theories of visual and written communication, focusing on the interrelationship between visual and verbal elements; practice in effective design using layout and graphics software; working on client projects in a collaborative setting. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 3601 or permission of instructor. ENGL 6619 - Web Design/Online Writing (3) Principles and techniques of creating online user help for software and usable web sites; emphasis on needs of technical writers in professional development environment; task analysis, information architecture, content management, single sourcing, visual rhetoric, navigation, usability testing; technology tools intensive. Students who have received credit for ENGL 4617 cannot take this course for credit. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 6618, or permission of instructor. ENGL 7000 - Literary Research (3) Various approaches to literary scholarship and research methodology; introduction to professional standards, bibliographical methods, and procedures of scholarship and criticism. NOTE: This course is required for Literature majors and should be taken in the first year of graduate study. ENGL 7001 - Textual Rhetorics (3) Study and application of interpretive strategies to texts pertinent to professional writing and composition studies. ENGL 7003 - Thry/Prac Tchng Comp (3) Designed for graduate assistants teaching English 1010. Emphasis on the ways and techniques of teaching rudiments of English composition on college level. Each graduate teaching assistant in the Department of English must enroll in English 7003-8003 before or concurrent with first teaching assignment. ENGL 7012 - Seminar Health Comm (3) (Same as COMM 7012-8012). Examines current issues in health communication research, including patient-provider relationships, new technologies and health promotion, and health organizations. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. ENGL 7013 - Wkshp Hlth Care Writing (3) Textual and contextual analysis of the kinds of writing produced for expert audiences in the healthcare industry and the academic research community; practice in writing documents such as technical proposals, clinical research reports, FDA documentation, and papers for publication. ENGL 7014 - Wkshp Public Hlth Care Writing (3) Theoretical understanding and skill-based practice in communicating healthcare information (patient education materials, public health care information, patient instructions) to a generally non-expert audience; rhetorical and analytical tools for shaping the information; practical skills for managing group projects and processes; and the opportunity to develop them in a workshop setting. ENGL 7100 - Independent Study (1-3) Focuses on a selected topic dealing with language study or a literary form, theme, figure, or movement. Topic chosen by student and approved by student's advisor and Department Chair. Can be used only as an elective. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ENGL 7211 - Medieval Literature (3) Studies of selected literary texts from the Middle Ages. ENGL 7230 - Chaucer (3) Studies of works by Geoffrey Chaucer in Middle English. ENGL 7232 - Shakespeare Tragedies (3) Study of the language, contexts, and themes of Shakespeare's tragedies. ENGL 7233 - Shakspr/Comdy & Histr (3) Study of the language, contexts, and themes of Shakespeare's comedies and histories. ENGL 7242 - English Renaissance Lit (3) Survey of the major works of the Renaissance. ENGL 7254 - English Lit 17c (3) Study of the poetry and prose of seventeenth-century England. ENGL 7256 - Milton (3) Study of Milton's poetry. ENGL 7264 - En Poet/Prose 1660-1800 (3) Study of drama, fiction, poetry, and essays from Restoration and eighteenth-century Britain. ENGL 7265 - 18th C British Novel (3) Study of the eighteenth-century British novel with special emphasis on the development of the novel as a literary genre. ENGL 7276 - English Lit Romantic (3) Exploration of major authors, themes, and/or movements in British Romantic literature. ENGL 7278 - Victorian Literature (3) Study of one or more aspects of poetry, prose, fiction or drama of the Victorian period and the historical and social circumstances in which they were produced. ENGL 7280 - 19th C British Novel (3) Study of notable works of British fiction written between 1790 and 1900. ENGL 7291 - Modern British Novel (3) Survey of British novels from the period 1880 to 1945. ENGL 7292 - Modern British Poetry (3) Study of important British and UK poetry written from 1890 to the present. ENGL 7293 - Modern British Drama (3) Study of British drama from Oscar Wilde to the present. ENGL 7320 - American Lit to 1820 (3) Advanced study of central texts, persistent themes, and literary movements from European-American contact until the end of the early republican period of the United States. ENGL 7322 - American Lit 1820-1865 (3) Survey of major authors, themes, and movements in American literature from 1820-1865. ENGL 7324 - American Lit 1865-1914 (3) Study of American literature from the Civil War to WWI, with special emphasis on the development of literary realism, regionalism, and naturalism in American literary and cultural history. ENGL 7325 - Africn Am Lit 1930-1960 (3) Focuses on the rise of African American modernism and its role in the development of protest literature of the 1960s; locates texts in multiple literary traditions, but concentrates on their relation to traditions of African American and Anglo-American writing. ENGL 7326 - A A Lit/Memphis/M South (3) Focuses on the rise of African American literature from the cultural matrix that became Memphis, a gathering point and crossroads for African American writers of all genres from 1867 Reconstructionist writings to the present southern Hip Hop Writers movement. ENGL 7327 - Form/Genre:Afr-Amer Lit (3) Examination of the development of an African American literary genre such as African American poetry, the slave narrative, or the African American novel. Through study of both primary and secondary texts, students will gain an understanding of the historical context in which a specific African American literary genre emerged, as well as become conversant in the critical discussions in which these literary forms are defined and theorized. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours when topic changes. ENGL 7328 - Maj Authors:Afr-Amer Lit (3) Study of the works of selected writers or cultural figures, as well as examination of the scholarship framing the author's career. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours when topic changes. ENGL 7329 - Afr-Amer Lit/Beg to 1850 (3) Survey of African American literature from the Colonial Period to 1850. ENGL 7330 - Afr-Amer Lit 1850-1900 (3) Survey of African American literature from 1850-1900. ENGL 7331 - Frederick Douglass (3) Study of Frederick Douglass, including his slave narratives, autobiographies, letters, short fiction, and public speeches. ENGL 7332 - Lit of the African Diaspora (3) Examination of literatures of the African diaspora outside of the U.S. May include Anglophone literatures, as well as literatures taught in translation. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours when topic changes. ENGL 7333 - Amiri Baraka (3) Study of the work of Amiri Baraka (LeRoi Jones), including poetry, drama, fiction, theory, music criticism, and autobiography. ENGL 7334 - The Black Arts Movement (3) Survey of Black Arts Movement, which encompassed the years 1960-1975 (approximately). May include study of novels, poems, plays, theoretical texts, and the visual arts, as well as examination of the community and cultural contexts within which these works were produced. ENGL 7335 - Afr-Amer Lit 1989 to Present (3) Survey of African American writing from 1989 to the present, situated in relation to recent developments in theory and other arts as well as contemporary cultural and political contexts. ENGL 7336 - Afr-Amer Literary Theory (3) Examination of the critical movements in African American Literary Theory from 1900 to present. ENGL 7350 - Rhetorical Theory (3) (Same as COMM 7350-8350). History of rhetoric from the sophists through the present; includes readings from Isocrates, Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, Augustine, Erasmus, Ramus, Campbell, Blair, John Q. Adams, and others. ENGL 7371 - Rhetorical Criticism (3) (Same as COMM 7371-8371). Examines principal modes of contemporary rhetorical analysis. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. ENGL 7391 - American Novel (3) Intensive study of American novels. ENGL 7392 - American Poetry (3) Intensive study of American poetry. ENGL 7393 - American Drama (3) Intensive study of American drama. ENGL 7394 - Modern American Lit (3) Advanced study of American literature produced between 1900 and 1950. ENGL 7395 - Am Literary Movements (3) Advanced study of a specific American literary movement, such as the Southern Agrarian Movement, the Beat Generation, or American Transcendentalism. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in course content. ENGL 7396 - Form and Genre in Am Lit (3) Advanced study of a specific form or genre in American literature, such as the novel, the essay, the lyric poem, or the play. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in course content. ENGL 7397 - Intellectual Bkgrnds of Am Lit (3) Advanced study of aspects of philosophy and the history of ideas as they relate to the development and interpretation of American literary texts and American literary culture. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in course content. ENGL 7398 - Cultural Contexts of Am Lit (3) Study of cultural contexts of key texts of American literature, including discussions of how such texts connect to political and social histories or concepts. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in course content. ENGL 7399 - Multi-Cultural Am Lit (3) Advanced study of multi-ethnic American literatures, including readings by writers focusing on the experiences of Asian Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Native Americans. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in course content. ENGL 7432 - Quant Research Methods (3) (Same as COMM 7432-8432). Survey of quantitative research in communication; practical experience in collecting and analyzing quantitative information. ENGL 7441 - Studies in European Literature (3) Movements and writers important to development of Continental Europe in the late eighteenth century to present. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours when topic changes. ENGL 7442 - Modern European Drama (3) Study of European drama from Isben to the present. ENGL 7451 - Women And Literature (3) Literature and criticism by and about women. ENGL 7452 - Biography Process/Text (3) Study of biography and the biographical process. ENGL 7462 - Cont British/Cmwlth Lit (3) Authors, works, genres, and literary styles in development of contemporary British and Commonwealth literatures. ENGL 7464 - Contmp American Lit (3) Authors, works, genres, and literary styles in development of contemporary American literature. ENGL 7465 - Afr-Amer Lit 1960-1988 (3) Major African American writers and/or movements from the 1960s up to 1988. ENGL 7466 - Contmp World Lit/Tnstn (3) Contemporary non-English fiction in translation, primarily from non-Western European cultures; focus on major movements and writers. ENGL 7468 - Lit Harlem Renaissance (3) Examination of poetry, prose, and drama from the period known as the "Harlem Renaissance" within the context of space, place, and geography. ENGL 7469 - Af Amer Women Writers (3) Examines the variety of ways black women writers have reclaimed the creative power of agency, emphasizing areas of difference as well as continuity within the African American literary tradition; combines considerations of context, both historical and political, with rigorous textual and theoretical analyses. ENGL 7470 - Forms Creative Nonfict (3) Creative nonfiction with attention to historical roots and contemporary theory and practice. May be repeated up to 6 hours with change of topic/course content and approval of Program Coordinator. ENGL 7471 - Forms Of Fiction (3) A study of how fiction works through analyzing the short story, the novella, and the novel with attention to historical developments. May be repeated up to 6 hours with change of topic/course content and approval of Program Coordinator. ENGL 7472 - Forms Of Poetry (3) A study of meters, forms, and types of poetry in English with attention to the principal traditions and critical ideas associated with the writing of verse in English. May be repeated up to 6 hours with change of topic/course content and approval of Program Coordinator. ENGL 7473 - Verbal/Visual Texts (3) Study of intersection of the verbal and the visual in illuminated manuscripts, graphic novels, children's books, illustrated books, video games, websites, and other sites. Depending upon the instructor?s choice, one or more of these genres and works of every period will be studied. May be repeated up to 6 hours with change of topic. ENGL 7475 - Literary Publishing (3) Development of skills involved in editing, producing, and marketing a literary magazine; further training in the skills of publishing the student?s own literary texts. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in course content. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ENGL 7476 - Mod Pop & Lit Tradition (3) Examination of issues (e.g. gender, nationalism, punishment) as they are represented in the texts of high and low culture beginning in the modern period, emphasizing how such representation challenges the distinction between high and low culture. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. ENGL 7478 - Textuality & Identity (3) Relationship between textuality and social groups. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. ENGL 7480 - Cultural Texts and Theories (3) Advanced social, political, and cultural theories that structure the understanding of cultural texts. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. ENGL 7481 - Early Pop Lit Trad (3) Examination of the relationship of texts of both high and low culture up to the modern period. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. ENGL 7485 - Lit Arts Programming (3) Development of skills involved in planning and administering community arts events and organizations; further training in the skills of author interviewing and book reviewing. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ENGL 7501 - History English Lang (3) Development of English from a minor Germanic dialect to a major international language. ENGL 7507 - Empirical Mthds Ling Rsrch (3) Develop research questions and hypotheses, prepare language surveys, use linguistic databases, perform qualitative and quanitative analysis of linguistic data, use computational tools, and prepare findings for presentation, and publication of research on the study of language use. ENGL 7508 - Corpus Linguistics (3) History, design, creation, interpretation, and applications of corpora in applied language research. ENGL 7509 - African American Linguistics (3) Study of African American Vernacular English, including historical development, linguistic features, correlation with ethnic identity, fictional representation, contributions to General American English, and controversies concerning use in schools. ENGL 7510 - Gender and Language (3) Study of gender as a variable as it intersects with language use in a variety of contexts, including professional, legal, medical, and classroom settings. ENGL 7511 - Survey of Linguistics (3) Introduction to the nature of language with emphasis on basic principles of English phonology, morphology, and syntax; emphasis on collecting and analyzing linguistic data for research purposes. ENGL 7512 - Morphology and Syntax (3) Study of English language structures emphasizing how form and meaning are integrally related. ENGL 7514 - Sociolinguistics (3) Language use in relation to social interaction and power structures; dialects and varieties of English; inequality in varied environments; appraisal of methodologies used in gathering and analyzing data. ENGL 7515 - Language & Literature (3) Application of linguistic theory to analysis of literature, nature of literary language, and linguistic options open to writers. ENGL 7516 - Phonetics & Phonology (3) Articulatory and linguistic phonetics, phonetic transcription, suprasegmental phonology, overview of English phonology, and information on teaching English pronunciation to speakers of other languages. ENGL 7517 - Discourse Analysis (3) Examination of the tools and methods used by various subdisciplines of English (linguistics, rhetoric, and literature) to analyze forms of discourse, including legal, medical, scientific, technical, business, literary, academic, and oral texts. ENGL 7530 - Fld Exp/Pract In ESL (3-6) Experience in observing and teaching, peer teaching, and work with an English as a Second Language (ESL) specialist. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ENGL 7531 - Theory/History ESL (3) Survey of relation of linguistic principles to second language acquisition. ENGL 7532 - Theor Skill Assess ESL (3) Application of theories of teaching second language skills with emphasis on testing in a second language. ENGL 7533 - Meth/Tech ESL In K-12 (3) Techniques and resources for working with children and adolescents for whom English is a second language. ENGL 7534 - Second Lang Acquisition (3) Theories of second language acquisition, development of second language proficiency, and research in bilingualism. ENGL 7535 - ESL Grammar (3) Grammatical systems and strategies of Modern English; analysis of English structures that tend to cause difficulty for ESL/SESD speakers. ENGL 7536 - Second Language Writing (3) Emphasis on research in second language writing, especially the role of psychological, social, and cultural influences on learning to write in a second language. ENGL 7537 - Second Language Reading (3) Emphasis on how non-native speakers of English learn to read in English, the effect of context and culture on L2 reading, and culturally related responses to reading and literacy traditions. ENGL 7538 - Cultural Issues ESL (3) Impact of culture on non-English language background speakers as well as the particular aspects of U.S. culture and traditions needed for successful acculturation. ENGL 7590 - Appl/Theory Linguistics (3) Intensive study of specialized areas in English linguistics. Maybe repeated up to 9 hours with change of topic. ENGL 7601 - Creative Nonfiction Wkshp (3) Emphasis on examination and discussion of creative nonfiction written by students. May be repeated 10 times for a maximum of 30 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ENGL 7602 - Fiction Workshop (3) Emphasis on the examination and the discussion of fiction written by students. May be repeated 10 times for a maximum of 30 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ENGL 7603 - Poetry Workshop (3) Emphasis on the examination and the discussion of poetry written by students. May be repeated 10 times for a maximum of 30 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ENGL 7604 - Creative Writing Wkshp (3) Emphasis on examination and discussion of fiction, poetry, or creative nonfiction written by students. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change of genre. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. ENGL 7605 - Adv Grad Fiction Wkshp (3) Designed for candidates in MFA program in Creative Writing who have shown particular excellence in ENGL 7602. May be repeated 10 times for a maximum of 30 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 7602. ENGL 7606 - Adv Creative Non-Fict Wkshp (3) Designed for candidates in MFA program in Creative Writing who have shown particular excellence in ENGL 7601. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 7601. ENGL 7607 - Advanced Poetry Workshop (3) Designed for candidates in MFA program in Creative Writing who have shown particular excellence in ENGL 7603. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 7603. ENGL 7621 - Seminar Argumentation (3) (Same as COMM 7621-8621). Examines historical and contemporary argumentation theories and how those theories are incorporated into the teaching of oral argumentation and composition. ENGL 7701 - Hist Crit Theory (3) History of literary criticism and theory, classical to modern. ENGL 7702 - Contemp Crit Theory (3) Examination of major movements in contemporary literary criticism and theory. ENGL 7801 - History Composition (3) Focuses on history of composition as a discipline of its own; examines rise of teaching of composition from 18th century Scottish universities to the present and/or history of development of theoretical approaches toward teaching composition. ENGL 7804 - Af Am Issues in Composition (3) Focuses on current scholarship and research that address the marginalized voices of race in the teaching of composition. Closely examines the theories and research of this issue, and studies pedagogical strategies. ENGL 7805 - Foundations of Writing Studies (3) A multidisciplinary exploration of the purposes, technologies, and contexts for written communication. ENGL 7806 - Resch Meth In Writing (3) Bibliographic techniques and an introduction to empirical methodologies for the study of the writing process and the testing of written documents. ENGL 7807 - Wksp/Govmt & Corp Wrtg (3) Textual and contextual analysis of the kinds of writing produced most often in government, law, and business; practice in writing correspondence reports, briefs, manuals, and proposals. ENGL 7808 - Wksp/Sci & Techn Wrtg (3) Textual and contextual analysis of the kinds of writing produced most often in industry and the academic research community; practice in writing documents such as technical proposals, reports, computer documentation, and papers for publication. ENGL 7809 - Technical Editing (3) Current practices in editing and publication in the field of technical communication; topics include copy-editing, substantive editing, author-editor relations, and the production practice. ENGL 7811 - Internship Prof Wrtng (3) Assigned on the basis of qualifications and availability, student does a semester's work in technical, scientific, legal, government, or business writing and provides an extensive report and analysis. NOTE: Students who are on academic probation will not be allowed to register for this course. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 7/8805 and ENGL 7/8809. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ENGL 7812 - Mphs Urban Wrtng Ins I (3) (Same as ICL 7304-8304). Intensive study of writing research, current writing practices, and issues and trends related to K-12 writing instruction. English majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. ENGL 7813 - Mphs Urban Wrtng Ins II (3) (Same as ICL 7305-8305). Prepares K-12 teachers to improve their own writing practices and assume a leadership role in writing instruction in their schools. English majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. ENGL 7815 - Sem History Rhetoric (3) Examines different periods and issues of rhetorical history each semester. One semester will consider Greek rhetoric (beginnings throught the New Testament); another will consider Latin rhetoric (Cicero through the Renaissance); a third will cover Scottish, British, and American rhetoric. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours when topic changes. ENGL 7816 - Sem Thrsts Prof Wrtg (3) A study of the works of major modern writing theorists in areas such as document design, collaboration, science, persuasion, editing, and writing process. ENGL 7817 - Sem Comp Theorists (3) Readings from and study of major modern theorists in invention, argumentation, literacy, writing, and discourse. ENGL 7818 - Collaborative Writing (3) Theoretical and research-based focus on managing and developing collaborative writing projects and processes. ENGL 7819 - Rhetoric Of Science (3) (Same as COMM 7819-8819). This course examines scientific and technical communication from phetorical perspective, showing how scientific knowledge is shaped not only by data and method, but also by persuasive purposes and sociocultural forces. ENGL 7820 - Topics In Rhetoric (3) (Same as COMM 7820-8820). Topical seminar devoted to an important aspect of the history, theory, or criticism of rhetoric. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours when topics change. ENGL 7822 - Cont Comp Theory (3) Examines relationship between rhetorical and composition theory and contemporary philosophy, especially poststructuralism, neo-pragmatism, and hermeneutics. ENGL 7823 - Topics In Composition (3) Topics can include invention, the writing process, writing assessment, style, and writing program administration. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours when topics change. ENGL 7890 - Topic/Technical Writing (3) Intensive study of specialized areas in technical writing. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours when topics change. ENGL 7900 - Creative Writing Colloquium (3) A course in the preparation for the MFA thesis and the MFA comprehensive exam. NOTE: May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours, but only three hours with any one professor may be applied toward the degree; recommended to be taken in the last semester of regular course work and first semester of thesis work. ENGL 7996 - Thesis (1-6) A prospectus for the thesis must be approved by the student's advisor and the department chair before the student registers for this course. The completed thesis must be approved by at least two readers. NOTE: Students in Professional Writing must pass their comprehensive examination before registering for thesis hours and have the option of writing or producing a project or portfolio. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ENGL 7997 - Portfolio (3) A course for MA students in Professional Writing who choose to produce a project or portfolio instead of a thesis. Before registering for the course, students must pass their comprehensive examination and have a prospectus for the portfolio or project approved by their advisor and the coordinator of graduate studies. ENGL 8000 - Literary Research (3) Various approaches to literary scholarship and research methodology; introduction to professional standards, bibliographical methods, and procedures of scholarship and criticism. NOTE: This course is required for Literature majors and should be taken in the first year of graduate study. ENGL 8001 - Textual Rhetorics (3) Study and application of interpretive strategies to texts pertinent to professional writing and composition studies. ENGL 8003 - Thry/Prac Tchng Comp (3) Designed for graduate assistants teaching English 1010. Emphasis on the ways and techniques of teaching rudiments of English composition on college level. Each graduate teaching assistant in the Department of English must enroll in English 7003-8003 before or concurrent with first teaching assignment. ENGL 8012 - Seminar Health Comm (3) (Same as COMM 7012-8012). Examines current issues in health communication research, including patient-provider relationships, new technologies and health promotion, and health organizations. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. ENGL 8013 - Wkshp Hlth Care Writing (3) Textual and contextual analysis of the kinds of writing produced for expert audiences in the healthcare industry and the academic research community; practice in writing documents such as technical proposals, clinical research reports, FDA documentation, and papers for publication. ENGL 8014 - Wkshp Public Hlth Care Writing (3) Theoretical understanding and skill-based practice in communicating healthcare information (patient education materials, public health care information, patient instructions) to a generally non-expert audience; rhetorical and analytical tools for shaping the information; practical skills for managing group projects and processes; and the opportunity to develop them in a workshop setting. ENGL 8100 - Independent Study (1-3) Focuses on a selected topic dealing with language study or a literary form, theme, figure, or movement. Topic chosen by student and approved by student's advisor and Department Chair. Can be used only as an elective. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ENGL 8211 - Medieval Literature (3) Studies of selected literary texts from the Middle Ages. ENGL 8230 - Chaucer (3) Studies of works by Geoffrey Chaucer in Middle English. ENGL 8232 - Shakespeare Tragedies (3) Study of the language, contexts, and themes of Shakespeare's tragedies. ENGL 8233 - Shakspr/Comdy & Histr (3) Study of the language, contexts, and themes of Shakespeare's comedies and histories. ENGL 8242 - English Renaissance Lit (3) Survey of the major works of the Renaissance. ENGL 8254 - English Lit 17c (3) Study of the poetry and prose of seventeenth-century England. ENGL 8256 - Milton (3) Study of Milton's poetry. ENGL 8264 - En Poet/Prose 1660-1800 (3) Study of drama, fiction, poetry, and essays from Restoration and eighteenth-century Britain. ENGL 8265 - 18th C British Novel (3) Study of the eighteenth-century British novel with special emphasis on the development of the novel as a literary genre. ENGL 8276 - English Lit Romatic (3) Exploration of major authors, themes, and/or movements in British Romantic literature. ENGL 8278 - Victorian Literature (3) Study of one or more aspects of poetry, prose, fiction or drama of the Victorian period and the historical and social circumstances in which they were produced. ENGL 8280 - 19th C British Novel (3) Study of notable works of British fiction written between 1790 and 1900. ENGL 8291 - Modern British Novel (3) Survey of British novels from the period 1880 to 1945. ENGL 8292 - Modern British Poetry (3) Study of important British and UK poetry written from 1890 to the present. ENGL 8293 - Modern British Drama (3) Study of British drama from Oscar Wilde to the present. ENGL 8320 - American Lit to 1820 (3) Advanced study of central texts, persistent themes, and literary movements from European-American contact until the end of the early republican period of the United States. ENGL 8322 - American Lit 1820-1865 (3) Survey of major authors, themes, and movements in American literature from 1820-1865. ENGL 8324 - American Lit 1865-1914 (3) Study of American literature from the Civil War to WWI, with special emphasis on the development of literary realism, regionalism, and naturalism in American literary and cultural history. ENGL 8325 - Africn Am Lit 1930-1960 (3) Focuses on the rise of African American modernism and its role in the development of protest literature of the 1960s; locates texts in multiple literary traditions, but concentrates on their relation to traditions of African American and Anglo-American writing. ENGL 8326 - A A Lit/Memphis/M South (3) Focuses on the rise of African American literature from the cultural matrix that became Memphis, a gathering point and crossroads for African American writers of all genres from 1867 Reconstructionist writings to the present southern Hip Hop Writers movement. ENGL 8327 - Form/Genre:Afr-Amer Lit (3) Examination of the development of an African American literary genre such as African American poetry, the slave narrative, or the African American novel. Through study of both primary and secondary texts, students will gain an understanding of the historical context in which a specific African American literary genre emerged, as well as become conversant in the critical discussions in which these literary forms are defined and theorized. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours when topic changes. ENGL 8328 - Maj Authors:Afr-Amer Lit (3) Study of the works of selected writers or cultural figures, as well as examination of the scholarship framing the author's career. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours when topic changes. ENGL 8329 - Afr-Amer Lit/Beg to 1850 (3) Survey of African American literature from the Colonial Period to 1850. ENGL 8330 - Afr-Amer Lit 1850-1900 (3) Survey of African American literature from 1850-1900. ENGL 8331 - Frederick Douglass (3) Study of Frederick Douglass, including his slave narratives, autobiographies, letters, short fiction, and public speeches. ENGL 8332 - Lit of the African Diaspora (3) Examination of literatures of the African diaspora outside of the U.S. May include Anglophone literatures, as well as literatures taught in translation. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours when topic changes. ENGL 8333 - Amiri Baraka (3) Study of the work of Amiri Baraka (LeRoi Jones), including poetry, drama, fiction, theory, music criticism, and autobiography. ENGL 8334 - The Black Arts Movement (3) Survey of Black Arts Movement, which encompassed the years 1960-1975 (approximately). May include study of novels, poems, plays, theoretical texts, and the visual arts, as well as examination of the community and cultural contexts within which these works were produced. ENGL 8335 - Afr-Amer Lit 1989 to Present (3) Survey of African American writing from 1989 to the present, situated in relation to recent developments in theory and other arts as well as contemporary cultural and political contexts. ENGL 8336 - Afr-Amer Literary Theory (3) Examination of the critical movements in African American Literary Theory from 1900 to present. ENGL 8350 - Rhetorical Theory (3) (Same as COMM 7350-8350). History of rhetoric from the sophists through the present; includes readings from Isocrates, Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, Augustine, Erasmus, Ramus, Campbell, Blair, John Q. Adams, and others. ENGL 8371 - Rhetorical Criticism (3) (Same as COMM 7371-8371). Examines principal modes of contemporary rhetorical analysis. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. ENGL 8391 - American Novel (3) Intensive study of American novels. ENGL 8392 - American Poetry (3) Intensive study of American poetry. ENGL 8393 - American Drama (3) Intensive study of American drama. ENGL 8394 - Modern American Lit (3) Advanced study of American literature produced between 1900 and 1950. ENGL 8395 - Am Literary Movements (3) Advanced study of a specific American literary movement, such as the Southern Agrarian Movement, the Beat Generation, or American Transcendentalism. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in course content. ENGL 8396 - Form and Genre in Am Lit (3) Advanced study of a specific form or genre in American literature, such as the novel, the essay, the lyric poem, or the play. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in course content. ENGL 8397 - Intellectual Bkgrnds of Am Lit (3) Advanced study of aspects of philosophy and the history of ideas as they relate to the development and interpretation of American literary texts and American literary culture. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in course content. ENGL 8398 - Cultural Contexts of Am Lit (3) Study of cultural contexts of key texts of American literature, including discussions of how such texts connect to political and social histories or concepts. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in course content. ENGL 8399 - Multi-Cultural Am Lit (3) Advanced study of multi-ethnic American literatures, including readings by writers focusing on the experiences of Asian Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Native Americans. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in course content. ENGL 8432 - Quant Research Methods (3) (Same as COMM 7432-8432). Survey of quantitative research in communication; practical experience in collecting and analyzing quantitative information. ENGL 8441 - Studies in European Literature (3) Movements and writers important to development of Continental Europe in the late eighteenth century to present. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours when topic changes. ENGL 8442 - Modern European Drama (3) Study of European drama from Isben to the present. ENGL 8451 - Women And Literature (3) Literature and criticism by and about women. ENGL 8452 - Biography Process/Text (3) Study of biography and the biographical process. ENGL 8462 - Cont British/Cmwlth Lit (3) Authors, works, genres, and literary styles in development of contemporary British and Commonwealth literatures. ENGL 8464 - Contmp American Lit (3) Authors, works, genres, and literary styles in development of contemporary American literature. ENGL 8465 - Afr-Amer Lit 1960-1988 (3) Major African American writers and/or movements from the 1960s up to 1988. ENGL 8466 - Contmp World Lit/Tnstn (3) Contemporary non-English fiction in translation, primarily from non-Western European cultures; focus on major movements and writers. ENGL 8468 - Lit Harlem Renaissance (3) Examination of poetry, prose, and drama from the period known as the "Harlem Renaissance" within the context of space, place, and geography. ENGL 8469 - Af Amer Women Writers (3) Examines the variety of ways black women writers have reclaimed the creative power of agency, emphasizing areas of difference as well as continuity within the African American literary tradition; combines considerations of context, both historical and political, with rigorous textual and theoretical analyses. ENGL 8470 - Forms Creative Nonfict (3) Creative nonfiction with attention to historical roots and contemporary theory and practice. May be repeated up to 6 hours with change of topic/course content and approval of Program Coordinator. ENGL 8471 - Forms Of Fiction (3) A study of how fiction works through analyzing the short story, the novella, and the novel with attention to historical developments. May be repeated up to 6 hours with change of topic/course content and approval of Program Coordinator. ENGL 8472 - Forms Of Poetry (3) A study of meters, forms, and types of poetry in English with attention to the principal traditions and critical ideas associated with the writing of verse in English. May be repeated up to 6 hours with change of topic/course content and approval of Program Coordinator. ENGL 8473 - Verbal/Visual Texts (3) Study of intersection of the verbal and the visual in illuminated manuscripts, graphic novels, children's books, illustrated books, video games, websites, and other sites. Depending upon the instructor?s choice, one or more of these genres and works of every period will be studied. May be repeated up to 6 hours with change of topic. ENGL 8475 - Literary Publishing (3) Development of skills involved in editing, producing, and marketing a literary magazine; further training in the skills of publishing the student?s own literary texts. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours with change in course content. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ENGL 8476 - Mod Pop & Lit Tradition (3) Examination of issues (e.g. gender, nationalism, punishment) as they are represented in the texts of high and low culture beginning in the modern period, emphasizing how such representation challenges the distinction between high and low culture. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. ENGL 8478 - Textuality & Identity (3) Relationship between textuality and social groups. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. ENGL 8480 - Cultural Texts and Theories (3) Advanced social, political, and cultural theories that structure the understanding of cultural texts. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. ENGL 8481 - Early Pop Lit Trad (3) Examination of the relationship of texts of both high and low culture up to the modern period. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. ENGL 8485 - Lit Arts Programming (3) Development of skills involved in planning and administering community arts events and organizations; further training in the skills of author interviewing and book reviewing. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ENGL 8501 - History English Lang (3) Development of English from a minor Germanic dialect to a major international language. ENGL 8507 - Empirical Mthds Ling Rsrch (3) Develop research questions and hypotheses, prepare language surveys, use linguistic databases, perform qualitative and quanitative analysis of linguistic data, use computational tools, and prepare findings for presentation, and publication of research on the study of language use. ENGL 8508 - Corpus Linguistics (3) History, design, creation, interpretation, and applications of corpora in applied language research. ENGL 8509 - African American Linguistics (3) Study of African American Vernacular English, including historical development, linguistic features, correclation with ethnic identity, fictional representation, contributions to General American English, and controversies concerning use in schools. ENGL 8510 - Gender and Language (3) Study of gender as a variable as it intersects with language use in a variety of contexts, including professional, legal, medical, and classroom settings. ENGL 8511 - Survey of Linguistics (3) Introduction to the nature of language with emphasis on basic principles of English phonology, morphology, and syntax; emphasis on collecting and analyzing linguistic data for research purposes. ENGL 8512 - Morphology and Syntax (3) Study of English language structures emphasizing how form and meaning are integrally related. ENGL 8514 - Sociolinguistics (3) Language use in relation to social interaction and power structures; dialects and varieties of English; inequality in varied environments; appraisal of methodologies used in gathering and analyzing data. ENGL 8515 - Language & Literature (3) Application of linguistic theory to analysis of literature, nature of literary language, and linguistic options open to writers. ENGL 8516 - Phonetics & Phonology (3) Articulatory and linguistic phonetics, phonetic transcription, suprasegmental phonology, overview of English phonology, and information on teaching English pronunciation to speakers of other languages. ENGL 8517 - Discourse Analysis (3) Examination of the tools and methods used by various subdisciplines of English (linguistics, rhetoric, and literature) to analyze forms of discourse, including legal, medical, scientific, technical, business, literary, academic, and oral texts. ENGL 8530 - Fld Exp/Pract In ESL (3-6) Experience in observing and teaching, peer teaching, and work with an English as a Second Language (ESL) specialist. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ENGL 8531 - Theory/History ESL (3) Survey of relation of linguistic principles to second language acquisition. ENGL 8532 - Theor Skill Assess ESL (3) Application of theories of teaching second language skills with emphasis on testing in a second language. ENGL 8533 - Meth/Tech ESL In K-12 (3) Techniques and resources for working with children and adolescents for whom English is a second language. ENGL 8534 - Second Lang Acquisition (3) Theories of second language acquisition, development of second language proficiency, and research in bilingualism. ENGL 8535 - ESL Grammar (3) Grammatical systems and strategies of Modern English; analysis of English structures that tend to cause difficulty for ESL/SESD speakers. ENGL 8536 - Second Language Writing (3) Emphasis on research in second language writing, especially the role of psychological, social, and cultural influences on learning to write in a second language. ENGL 8537 - Second Language Reading (3) Emphasis on how non-native speakers of English learn to read in English, the effect of context and culture on L2 reading, and culturally related responses to reading and literacy traditions. ENGL 8538 - Cultural Issues ESL (3) Impact of culture on non-English language background speakers as well as the particular aspects of U.S. culture and traditions needed for successful acculturation. ENGL 8590 - Appl/Theory Linguistics (3) Intensive study of specialized areas in English linguistics. Maybe repeated up to 9 hours with change of topic. ENGL 8601 - Creative Nonfiction Wkshp (3) Emphasis on examination and discussion of creative nonfiction written by students. May be repeated 10 times for a maximum of 30 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ENGL 8602 - Fiction Workshop (3) Emphasis on the examination and the discussion of fiction written by students. May be repeated 10 times for a maximum of 30 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ENGL 8603 - Poetry Workshop (3) Emphasis on the examination and the discussion of poetry written by students. May be repeated 10 times for a maximum of 30 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ENGL 8606 - Adv Creative Non-Fict Wkshp (3) Designed for candidates in MFA program in Creative Writing who have shown particular excellence in ENGL 7601. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 7601. ENGL 8607 - Advanced Poetry Workshop (3) Designed for candidates in MFA program in Creative Writing who have shown particular excellence in ENGL 7603. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 7603. ENGL 8621 - Seminar Argumentation (3) (Same as COMM 7621-8621). Examines historical and contemporary argumentation theories and how those theories are incorporated into the teaching of oral argumentation and composition. ENGL 8701 - Hist Crit Theory (3) History of literary criticism and theory, classical to modern. ENGL 8702 - Contemp Crit Theory (3) Examination of major movements in contemporary literary criticism and theory. ENGL 8801 - History Composition (3) Focuses on history of composition as a discipline of its own; examines rise of teaching of composition from 18th century Scottish universities to the present and/or history of development of theoretical approaches toward teaching composition. ENGL 8804 - Af Am Issues in Composition (3) Focuses on current scholarship and research that address the marginalized voices of race in the teaching of composition. Closely examines the theories and research of this issue, and studies pedagogical strategies. ENGL 8805 - Foundations of Writing Studies (3) A multidisciplinary exploration of the purposes, technologies, and contexts for written communication. ENGL 8806 - Resch Meth In Writing (3) Bibliographic techniques and an introduction to empirical methodologies for the study of the writing process and the testing of written documents. ENGL 8807 - Wksp/Govmt & Corp Wrtg (3) Textual and contextual analysis of the kinds of writing produced most often in government, law, and business; practice in writing correspondence reports, briefs, manuals, and proposals. ENGL 8808 - Wksp/Sci & Techn Wrtg (3) Textual and contextual analysis of the kinds of writing produced most often in industry and the academic research community; practice in writing documents such as technical proposals, reports, computer documentation, and papers for publication. ENGL 8809 - Technical Editing (3) Current practices in editing and publication in the field of technical communication; topics include copy-editing, substantive editing, author-editor relations, and the production practice. ENGL 8811 - Internship Prof Wrtng (3) Assigned on the basis of qualifications and availability, student does a semester's work in technical, scientific, legal, government, or business writing and provides an extensive report and analysis. NOTE: Students who are on academic probation will not be allowed to register for this course. PREREQUISITE: ENGL 7/8805 and ENGL 7/8809. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. ENGL 8812 - Mphs Urban Wrtng Ins I (3) (Same as ICL 7304-8304). Intensive study of writing research, current writing practices, and issues and trends related to K-12 writing instruction. English majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. ENGL 8813 - Mphs Urban Wrtng Ins II (3) (Same as ICL 7305-8305). Prepares K-12 teachers to improve their own writing practices and assume a leadership role in writing instruction in their schools. English majors may not use this course to fulfill degree requirements. ENGL 8815 - Sem History Rhetoric (3) Examines different periods and issues of rhetorical history each semester. One semester will consider Greek rhetoric (beginnings throught the New Testament); another will consider Latin rhetoric (Cicero through the Renaissance); a third will cover Scottish, British, and American rhetoric. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours when topic changes. ENGL 8816 - Sem Thrsts Prof Wrtg (3) A study of the works of major modern writing theorists in areas such as document design, collaboration, science, persuasion, editing, and writing process. ENGL 8817 - Sem Comp Theorists (3) Readings from and study of major modern theorists in invention, argumentation, literacy, writing, and discourse. ENGL 8818 - Collaborative Writing (3) Theoretical and research-based focus on managing and developing collaborative writing projects and processes. ENGL 8819 - Rhetoric Of Science (3) (Same as COMM 7819-8819). This course examines scientific and technical communication from phetorical perspective, showing how scientific knowledge is shaped not only by data and method, but also by persuasive purposes and sociocultural forces. ENGL 8820 - Topics In Rhetoric (3) (Same as COMM 7820-8820). Topical seminar devoted to an important aspect of the history, theory, or criticism of rhetoric. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours when topics change. ENGL 8822 - Cont Comp Theory (3) Examines relationship between rhetorical and composition theory and contemporary philosophy, especially poststructuralism, neo-pragmatism, and hermeneutics. ENGL 8823 - Topics In Composition (3) Topics can include invention, the writing process, writing assessment, style, and writing program administration. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours when topics change. ENGL 8890 - Topic/Technical Writing (3) Intensive study of specialized areas in technical writing. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours when topics change. ENGL 8900 - Engl Stds Colloquium (3) Defines and compares the history, research methodologies, and current issues of each of the concentrations in the doctoral program to provide integrative understanding of the discipline, and guide the student toward preparing and defending the dissertation proposal. ENGL 9000 - Dissertation (1-9) No more than 9 hours may be applied toward the degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .