#http://www.memphis.edu/law/career-services/oci.php
On Campus Interviews - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Career Services Student Resources &amp; Services Services Symplicity Guide Career Pathways Clerkships Pro Bono On Campus Interviews 1L CSO Orientation Job Fairs Job Postings Alumni Resources &amp; Services Services Reciprocity Symplicity Esq.Build Get Involved Employer Resources Posting a Job On Campus Recruiting Resume Collection Program Increasing Your Visibility Employment Statistics Home School of Law Career Services On Campus Interviews ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS During the fall and spring, employers from around the region conduct interviews on campus for summer associate and post-graduation positions. During the fall, the on-campus interviews (OCI) start in August and end in November. Spring OCI starts in January and end in April. Preparing for OCI The CSO offers two programs to help prepare you for Fall OCI: resume reviews and mock interviews. Resume Review To have your resume reviewed before you apply for OCI, please email it to the Career Services Office at lawcareerservices@memphis.edu Mock Interviews Before OCI, local attorneys will be on campus to conduct mock interviews. Mock interviews are a great opportunity to practice your interview skills and to receive feedback to improve your performance. Interview sessions typically last 30 minutes. To sign up for mock interviews, please follow these instructions or contact the Career Services Office for assistance. Document Library Resources In addition to resume reviews and mock interviews, you can prepare for OCI by checking out our Resume Guide, Cover Letter Guide, and Interview Preparation Handout located in Symplicity's document library. OCI Policies The CSO and all students must adhere to the National Association for Law Placement (NALP) Principles and Standards for employers, law students, and law schools. The policy is found in its entirety at on the NALP Student Professionalism website. You are required to honor all interview appointments unless you have accepted another position by the date of the interview. Emergencies are the only exceptions and must be cleared with the Assistant Dean for Career Services. If you fail to appear for an interview, you must provide a written letter of apology to the employer within 24 hours of the scheduled interview. In the letter, be sure to copy to the Assistant Dean for Career Services. The Assistant Dean has the authority to suspend your access to OCI, Symplicity, or other CSO resources for exhibiting unprofessional behavior. On Campus Interviews Participation Information In order to participate in OCI, you will need to follow specific instructions located in the link above . We will also send instructions and reminders via email as the OCI season approaches. Career Services Student Resources &amp; Services Services Symplicity Guide Career Pathways Clerkships Pro Bono On Campus Interviews 1L CSO Orientation Job Fairs Job Postings Alumni Resources &amp; Services Services Reciprocity Symplicity Esq.Build Get Involved Employer Resources Posting a Job On Campus Recruiting Resume Collection Program Increasing Your Visibility Employment Statistics Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .