#http://www.memphis.edu/ccfa/news/voices/fall15/
Voices - CCFA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. College of Communication and Fine Arts About Programs News Events Alumni Donors Resources news Voices Fall 2015 Winter 2015 Archives In the News Home CCFA News CCFA Voices: Fall 2015 FEATURES It Takes a Village Using arts and culture as a catalyst for change at Crosstown Arts Master of the Class Department of Architecture Associate Professor James Williamson provides a different look at Architect Louis I. Kahn Distinguished Achievement Award in the Creative and Performing Arts Joyce Cobb, Memphis Jazz singer, actress and disc jockey, named the 2015 recipient of the DAA EVERY ISSUE Dean's Message Dean Richard R. Ranta gives update on the college Donor Spotlight AMUM announces the dedication of The Samuel Hester Crone Gallery, the gift of William S. Huff Upcoming Events Calendar of productions, concerts and shows. Alumni Spotlight Lawrence Matthews III Jennifer Hale Around CCFA Changing of the Guard "What I Kept" Dreams Come True in the Bayou Two CCFA Professors Awarded Faudree Professorship James Luna Exhibitions Held at Fogelman Galleries UofM Establishes D. Mike Pennington Award For Mentoring Journalism Department Hosted Norm Brewer First Amendment Lecture Distinguished Professionals Added to CCFA Faculty Beloved CCFA Faculty Retire In the Community UofM Professor and Students Win Regional Emmy Architecture Student Work Displayed in Law School Journalism Student Named Finalist in National Competition Art Professor is Busy in the Community Theatre Alum Stars in New York Production Artists Delivered Sound of Memphis at Hear 901 Festival News &amp; Notes In Memoriam 2015 Outstanding Alumni Awards presented by The Journalism Alumni Club Wednesday, October 14, 2015 at 7 p.m. Registration: 6-7 p.m. (with cocktails) Tickets: $60 per person, $500 per table Honoring Mike Pennington (posthumously), Charles E. Thornton Award for Outstanding Alumni; James Overstreet, Charles E. Thornton Award for Outstanding Alumni; Otis Sanford, Herbert Lee Williams Award; Amanda Mauck, Young Alumni Award; Aiden Porter, Emerging Journalist Award There will be a special presentation honoring Bill Wellborn, last year's recipient of the Thornton Award, who passed away this year. For more information, contact semiller@memphis.edu or 901.678.3043 news Voices Fall 2015 Winter 2015 Archives In the News Apply Now Explore your creativity in CCFA. Contact Us Dean's office contact information Read Voices Online edition of CCFA's magazine Donate Now Support students and the arts with your donation Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .