#http://www.memphis.edu/childcare/policies.php
Policies - Child Care - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Child Development Center Hours Policies Nutrition/Food Admittance Curriculum Home Child Care Policies Policies of the Child Development Center Admissions Arrival/Dismissal Withdrawal Emergencieis Clothing and Toys Nutrition/Food Health Medication Field Trips Discipline/Positive Behavior Guidance Rest Time Admissions Policy Applications are accepted regardless of client's race, creed, or ethnic background. Children will be considered for admission to the program based on the following criteria: Children must be between 30 months and 12 years of age on the first day of attendance. A copy of the child's birth certificate must be present at the time of enrollment. A child's parent/legal guardian must be currently enrolled at the University of Memphis. Parents must complete and sign all necessary enrollment and authorization forms promptly. Children 30 months to 5 years of age must have a current record of immunizations signed by a physician. Children will be scheduled to accommodate the parent and center schedules. Waiting lists are maintained for the current semester. Children will be admitted on the program's ability to meet their needs. A mobility aid must be provided for children that cannot walk due to disabilities. The center must have an official copy of the parent's class schedule. In order for the pre-school children to take advantage of the program those enrolling during the morning hours, must enroll a minimum of 3 hours. The center is available for drop-in use. You must have the required enrollment forms on file ahead of time and call in advance to confirm there is space. School aged children will not be allowed to drop in during the day when the schools are out during the regular school year. Arrivals/Dismissals Policy Parents must clock their child in and out at the computer located at the front door. If a child is not picked up within 30 minutes after their scheduled pick up time, without prior notice, the following procedure will be implemented: Contact parent(s). Contact emergency person . Contact Police Withdrawal Policy A parent may withdraw his/her child within the first full week of classes with written notification. Non-refundable fees will still be accessed. After the first full week, contracts cannot be cancelled and the parent will be responsible for the full semester's tuition. The University of Memphis Child Development Center reserves the right to terminate childcare for any of the following reasons: Parental disregard of rules as stated in this handbook. The center is unable to meet the child's needs. A parent's display of inappropriate behavior toward staff or children. A child is physically or verbally abusive to other children and/or staff. Any fraudulent, false or misleading information provided to the Center regarding student status, child custody, or other pertinent information. If a child is withdrawn/terminated from the center for any of the above reasons, the parent is still responsible for the full semesters tuition. Emergency Policy In the event of a medical emergency, the director and/or lead teacher may attempt to obtain medical care for your child. These steps may include, but are not limited to the following: Administration of emergency first aid treatment. Notification of parent and/or emergency contact. Contacting the child's physician. If unable to contact the parent, other listed emergency contact, or the child's physician, we will call another physician or call an ambulance. The child will be accompanied by a staff person. All expenses are the responsibility of the child's parent or legal guardian. Clothing/Toys Policy To ensure the comfort and safety of the children, please adhere to the following: Each child must have an extra change of clothing, including underwear that is kept in a ziploc bag with the child's name on it, left at the center. If clothing is not provided we call parents when needed. Children must wear shoes. Rubber soled shoes are best for running and climbing. Flip-flops, wedges, and shoes with high heels should not be worn. All clothing and belongings should be labeled with the child's name. Do not allow your child to bring toys, games, or other items to the center, unless requested by the teacher. The center is not responsible for lost or stolen belongings. Parental Involvement Knowing the parent to be a child's first teacher and role model, the staff realizes parental involvement is necessary for the success of the program. Parents are encouraged to share their time and talents, participate in special days, volunteer and visit the program. We welcome and invite parent's suggestions and participation in events and activities. Also, we ask that when dropping off and picking up your child, that you discuss your child's day with their teacher. Please remember cell phone conversations belong outside, with this in mind turn cell phones off before entering center property. Nutrition/Food What we feed our children in their early years and during childhood can influence eating habits and body weight in later life. Young children need energy and adequate amounts of certain nutrients for normal growth and development. In order for children to receive quantities and combinations of foods that provide nutrients in proportion to the amount of their day spent at the center, we participate in the Child and Adult Food Care program. The Child Development Center serves a light breakfast (8:00 am to 8:30 am) lunch (11:30 am) afternoon snacks (2:00 pm and 3:30 pm) and evening dinner (6:30 pm) to the children who are enrolled during this time. Milk is served at all meals. The Center has its meals catered and the center must call in the meal counts daily. In order to provide an adequate count, parents must notify the center when their child will be late or not attending. If a child has not arrived within 30 minutes of their scheduled arrival time, the child is considered absent and will not be included in the meal count. It is then up to the parent to provide that meal. The weekly lunch and dinner menu as well as the snack menu are posted on the Parent Board each week. Parents are encouraged to view the menus in order to know what foods are served during their child's stay at the center. Health Policy The center is a place for well children. Children who become ill at the center will be moved to a quiet area and will receive the necessary attention until you can be notified. Please try to pick up your child as soon as possible to protect the health and well being of other children. A child who contracts a communicable disease will be excluded from attendance until he/she is no longer contagious. Illnesses necessitating the temporary removal from the center are as follows: Diarrhea Fever of 101 degrees or more Vomiting Severe cough Pinkeye (conjunctivitis) Infected skin patches and fever: crusty, bright yellow, dry or gummy areas of skin Any condition that keeps the child from feeling well enough to participate with his/her class An ill child with any of the above symptoms should be symptom free for 24 hours before returning to the center. When children return, he/she should be well enough to go outside and participate in all activities. Staff are trained in emergency first aid and CPR. When minor accidents (bumps, scrapes, scratches, bites) occur, we will treat the injury and attempt to let you know the circumstances. A written accident report form will be sent home with your child. Medication Policy Children taking medication at the center must have a medication form completed daily by the parent and given to the child's teacher along with the medication. All medication must be labeled with your child's name and written instructions on the original container. Medication will not be given if any of the following occur: The authorization has not been completely filled out and signed The medication is prescribed for someone other than your child The non-prescription medicine has been given for three days, unless there is a doctor's note directing its continued administration In case of adverse medical reactions, the parent will be notified immediately. If you cannot be reached, we will call the emergency numbers listed by the parent. If the situation is critical, we will call 9-1-1. Policies regarding Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), Hepatitis B Virus (HBV), and other Blood Borne Pathogens are as follows: The University of Memphis makes every effort to protect its children, parents, and employees from any communicable disease. Blood borne viruses have not been found to be transmitted by casual contact. They are not spread by wiping noses, sharing mouthed toys, hugging, coughing, sneezing, using common utensils, or touching common surfaces used by someone infected with a blood borne pathogen. Routine precautions, such as rubber gloves, hand washing, proper cleaning of wounds and careful disinfecting of all surfaces, etc., will be taken when dealing with incidents where there is blood or body fluid involvement . If the victim of a blood borne virus is in a stage where open lesions occur in the mouth or other parts of the body, and/or displays a biting behavior, he/she will be considered too high risk to participate in our program. The University of Memphis Child Development Center will provide information in the form of printed material and educational seminars upon request to alleviate any concerns staff or parents may have. Field Trips Field trips are an important part of our educational program for children. Outings into the community, nature walks, trips to the library, and so on, help to enhance the classroom activities. Parents are encouraged to go with the class whenever possible. You will be notified about trips and outings as they are planned. The exceptions are the neighborhood park and library. Permission slips will have to be signed for all trips! Discipline/Positive Behavior Guidance Behavior is managed in a positive manner according to the child's age. Teachers use guidance techniques to direct children's behavior. Physical punishment or verbal abuse by an adult, including parents, is not allowed on center property. Our goal of discipline is to help children learn an inner control over their own behavior. This is best done by helping children express emotions using words, rather than physical force. Teachers create a positive environment for children by having clear and consistent rules. Teachers encourage positive behavior by doing the following: Redirecting children to another area of the classroom when their behavior is inappropriate Encouraging and reinforcing specific positive behaviors by children. Rest Time Policy All children, up through the age of five, will have the advantage of an afternoon rest period. The rest time is usually 12:15 pm to 1:45 pm. Children will be provided with their own cot/mat and sheet/blanket. We will create a very pleasant atmosphere for the children. With this in mind, we will not allow children to be picked up or dropped off during rest time. News New things going on at the Center Contact Us Who to talk to and how to get there Campus Dining Learn about dining on campus Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .