#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11381
Advanced Assistant or Associate Professor in Rhetoric and Composition Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Advanced Assistant or Associate Professor in Rhetoric and Composition Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC433 Advertised Title Advanced Assistant or Associate Professor in Rhetoric and Composition Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 002428 Category Full-Time Faculty Department English Position Summary The Department of English at the University of Memphis invites applications for a tenure-track advanced assistant or associate professor to direct our first-year writing program beginning August 2016 pending availability of funds. We seek applicants with experience in writing program administration and established records as outstanding teachers. We are especially interested in applicants skilled in instructor development, curriculum design, and program assessment. The director of first-year writing, with a reduced teaching load, oversees our practicum and mentoring program for graduate teaching assistants. The successful candidate also will contribute to our MA and PhD programs in Composition Studies and Professional Writing and pursue an active research agenda related to either of those areas of scholarship. A public university of over 20,000 students located in a quiet residential neighborhood in a legendary American city, UofM embraces diversity and strives to be a major metropolitan research institution. Minimum Position Qualifications Required Qualifications: Ph.D. in Rhetoric and Composition or related field. Special Conditions Applications due November 30 and screening may continue until the position is filled. The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents institution, is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Immigration Reform Act Employer. We urge all qualified applicants to apply for this position. Minorities and women are encouraged to apply. Appointment will be based on qualifications as they relate to position requirements without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, disability or veteran status. Posting Date 10/30/2015 Closing Date 11/30/2015 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range Commensurate with experience Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Applications for the position must be submitted online. To apply, visit: Please have the following documents ready to upload: cover letter; curriculum vitae; writing sample; statement of teaching philosophy; three letters of recommendation. Application deadline is November 30 and screening may continue until position is filled. Instructions to Applicant regarding references Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Cover Letter Teaching Philosophy Other Document 1 Optional Documents Unofficial Transcript Article Reprint 1 Other Document 4