#http://www.memphis.edu/bursar/fees/onlinefees.php
Online Courses and eRate Fee Information - Bursar's Office - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Bursar's Office Staff Directory Fees Calendars Students Parents Campus Card Fees Fee Charts Fee Payment Policies Deadlines, Refunds &amp; Important Dates Fee Payment Methods Installment Payment Plan Explanation of Fees Financial Assistance/ Sponsorships General Info Fee Discounts &amp; Waivers Fee Adjustment (Refund) Policy Home Bursar's Office Fees Online Courses and eRate Fee Information Online Courses and eRate Fee Information Tuition &amp; Fees Charged to all students who take any classes at the University of Memphis. This fee is assessed based on the student matriculation level (undergraduate/graduate/law) and the number of hours enrolled, with no maximum for Mxx and RODP courses. U of M Online Courses with completely numeric section numbers will be assessed at the On-Campus rate and in addition to the Mxx and RODP courses (eRate will be assessed on a per hour rate, with no maximum). Online Degree Programs Online Fees This fee is assessed on a per-hour basis, with no maximum and is in addition to tuition. RODP Online Fee – $122 per credit hour assessed to students registered for courses through the Regents Online Degree Program (courses designated with a section Rxx) U of M Online Fee – $100 per credit hour assessed to students registered for U of M Online courses (courses designated with a section Mxx) and classified as in-state for tuition assessment. eRate (Out-of-State) This tuition is assessed on a per-hour basis, with no maximum. eRate tuition (replace standard out-of-state tuition at a reduced rate) is assessed to students who are classified as non-residents of the State of Tennessee and enrolled in all online courses (instructional method of "Web"). Students taking online and ANY on-campus course (NOT instructional method of "Web") will be assessed the standard out-of-state tuition for all enrolled courses, the $100 per credit hour online fee and will not be eligible for the eRate . The following courses are eligible for eRate: RODP – Sections Rxx U of M Online – Section Mxx U of M Online – Completely Numeric Sections xxx (ex. 410) eRate tuition is calculated as 50% of the Maintenance fee at the same matriculation level and is assessed on a per hour basis, with no maximum. Example : the Undergraduate Maintenance fee is $305.00 per hour; the corresponding eRate is $153.00 per hour. NOTE : Students eligible for the eRate are exempt from the U of M Online Fee. RODP Online Fee will still apply for RODP Courses. Examples: U of M Online Courses Courses designated with a section Mxx Regents Online Degree Program (RODP) Includes courses designated with Rxx section numbers On-Campus hours mixed with Online Courses (Not Eligible for eRate) In-State Undergraduate Maintenance Fee: $305 per hour Online Fee: $100 per hour Total: $405 per hour* Graduate Maintenance Fee: $479 per hour Online Fee: $100 per hour Total: $579 per hour* *With NO Maximum In-State Undergraduate Maintenance Fee: $305 per hour Online Fee: $122 per hour Total: $427 per hour* Graduate Maintenance Fee: $479 per hour Online Fee: $122 per hour Total: $601 per hour* *With NO Maximum In-State (12 hrs On-Campus, 3 hrs RODP, 3 hrs Mxx) Undergraduate On-Campus Maint Fee: $3660 Program Service Fee: $791.50 RODP Maint Fee: $915 RODP Online Fee: $366 U of M Online Maint Fee: $915 U of M Online Fee: $300 Total: $6947.50 Graduate Fees are assessed using the same method. Out-of-State (eRate) Undergraduate Maintenance Fee: $305 per hour eRate Fee: $153 per hour Total: $458 per hour* Graduate Maintenance Fee: $479 per hour eRate Fee: $240 per hour Total: $719 per hour* *With NO Maximum Out-of-State (eRate) Undergraduate Maintenance Fee: $305 per hour Online Fee: $122 per hour eRate Fee: $153 per hour Total: $580 per hour* Graduate Maintenance Fee: $479 per hour Online Fee: $122 per hour eRate Fee: $240 per hour Total: $841 per hour* *With NO Maximum Out-of-State (6 hrs On-Campus, 3 hrs RODP, 3 hrs Mxx) Undergraduate On-Campus Maint Fee: $1830 Program Service Fee: $791.50 Out-of-State Tuition: $2928 RODP Maint Fee: $915 RODP Online Fee: $366 RODP Out-of-State: $1464 U of M Online Maint Fee: $915 U of M Online Fee: $300 U of M Online Out-of-State: $1464 Total: $10973.50 Graduate Fees are assessed using the same method. Fees Fee Charts Fee Payment Policies Deadlines, Refunds &amp; Important Dates Fee Payment Methods Installment Payment Plan Explanation of Fees Financial Assistance/ Sponsorships General Info Fee Discounts &amp; Waivers Fee Adjustment (Refund) Policy TigerXpress View your statements and pay fees online in TigerXpress. Tuition Estimator How much will your courses cost? Get an estimate online! Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the U of M Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/8/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .