#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/news/archive/2015/fcbe_1112.php
2015 Annual Alumni Luncheon Highlights the Value of Education - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Home FCBE News 2015 Annual Alumni Luncheon Highlights the Value of Education 2015 Annual Alumni Luncheon Highlights the Value of Education The Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics (FCBE) hosted its 23rd Alumni Day Luncheon last Thursday to celebrate some of the school's most distinguished graduates and honor their significant support. David Wedaman, chairman and CEO of ReTrans, Inc., received the Outstanding Alumnus award. Brett Norman, CEO and founder of AgSmarts, Inc., was named Outstanding Young Alumnus. Charles McVean, chairman and CEO of McVean Trading &amp; Investments, LLC, was awarded Distinguished Friend of the College. The keynote speaker for the luncheon was Donald E. Godwin, trial lawyer and lead counsel for Halliburton. David Wedaman, who graduated in 1980 with a BBA in accounting, was honored as this year's Outstanding Alumnus. He founded ReTrans in 2002, and has since then grown the company to a national level. It currently operates with thirty-five offices across the nation. Charles McVean, the visionary behind the Peer Power Foundation, was named the Distinguished Friend of the College. Peer Power is a nonprofit organization that recruits and trains high-performing students as tutors and mentors of their peers. Several years ago, Fogelman College and Peer Power partnered together to implement this peer-tutoring platform on a collegiate level. Brett Norman, a FCBE International MBA graduate, received the Outstanding Young Alumnus Award. In 2014, Norman co-founded AgSmarts, Inc. which helps agricultural producers of all size and type boost their productivity and profitability. David Wedaman and Charles McVean were also inducted into the Fogelman College Hall of Fame, which recognizes our Outstanding Alumni and Distinguished Friends. The luncheon was concluded by the keynote speaker, Donald E. Godwin, a FCBE School of Accountancy alumnus. Godwin is currently the lead trial lawyer for Halliburton in connection with all civil litigation and investigations concerning BP's Macondo well blowout in the Gulf of Mexico. He was also the lead counsel for Halliburton in its asbestos and silica litigation. Godwin has been recognized by Chambers USA since 2014 in the area of General Commercial Litigation and he was selected to the Lawdragon 500, a group that recognized the 500 leading lawyers in America. He has also been named one of The Best Lawyers in America since 2012; and, most recently, he was named one the 50 Lions of the Texas Bar, a group that is comprised of the top 50 most notable lawyers in Texas. "All of the award winners reinforced the importance of integrity, hard work, and a well-rounded education. These are the same values we reinforce at Fogelman College," said Dr. Rajiv Grover, dean of the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics. "It is inspiring to hear accounts from individuals who have achieved success by implementing these values in their personal and professional lives." News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .