#http://www.memphis.edu/law/admissions/transferinformation.php
Transfer Information - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application Guide LSAT Prep Transfer Information TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP) Part-Time Program Schedule a Visit Academic Curriculum Apply Now Check Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats Overview Class Profile Factsheet 2015 Viewbook Request a Viewbook Bragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of Costs Tuition Information Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Payment Academic Curriculum Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Recruiting Calendar Ask a Current Student Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ List Application Information LSAT Notification and Acceptance Curriculum Childcare City of Memphis Admitted Student Information Home School of Law Admissions Transfer Information TRANSFERRING TO MEMPHIS LAW If you are interested in attending Memphis Law as a transfer, start-over or visiting student, there are several steps that you must take in order to apply. Please read the information provided below, or you are welcome to contact the Law Admissions Office by email or at (901) 678-5403. Application Details Our electronic application is available through the Law Schoool Admission Council (LSAC). You must create an online account with LSAC in order to use this service. You must register for the Credential Assembly Service (CAS) via your LSAC online account to send electronic applications to LSAC for processing and transmission to the University of Memphis School of Law. Click here for information on the components of the application. Visit the Law School Admissions Counsel at lsac.org for information regarding the LSAT dates and deadlines. Deferred Admission A limited number of admitted students may be given permission to defer enrollment to the entering class upon demonstration of a particular personal, financial, or other impediment to their current enrollment. The student must submit a written request to the Dean or his designate prior to August 1st specifying the reasons for the deferral. The student must have submitted a seat deposit by the appropriate deadline in order to retain a seat for the entering class. The student must reconfirm in writing his or her intention to enroll between January 1 and April 1 of the deferral year. Failure to reconfirm by the deadline will result in forfeiture of the student's seat. Deferrals are only made for one year. Credentials for deferred applicants will be maintained for twelve months. After this period, they will be regulated to an inactive status. Startover Admission The School of Law may admit to the first year entering class a student who has been academically excluded from an ABA accredited law school or who was on academic probation at the time of withdrawal from such law school, if, in the opinion of the Admissions Committee, the student has made an affirmative showing that he or she "possesses the requisite ability and that the prior disqualification does not indicate a lack of capacity to complete the course of study at the admitting school" pursuant to ABA Standard 505. The number of students who can be admitted as startovers in any given year is limited to five (5) and is further limited to residents of Tennessee or non-resident students previously excluded from the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law. Transfer Admission Admission as a transfer student to the School of Law is competitive. To be considered for transfer admission, an applicant must be in good standing at a law school accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA), including provisionally-approved schools, at the time of transfer. Students interested in transferring should submit a completed application along with a $25.00 application fee. The transfer application deadline is July 15, and the application is available at LSAC's website. A completed application for transfer consists of: CAS report Letter of good standing from the law school dean Official document stating class rank Official transcript of credits earned from all previously attended law schools Letter of recommendation from a current law school professor Personal statement addressing the applicant's interest in and reasons for transferring to the University of Memphis School of Law The dean or the dean's designate will make transfer-application decisions after reviewing the completed transfer application and after considering the number of places available in the class. To be eligible for transfer, the student must have successfully completed at least one year of law study at an ABA-approved law school or ABA provisionally-approved law school before transferring to the University of Memphis School of Law. Once admitted, transfer credit earned in each course must be at least equal to the overall grade point required for graduation by the University of Memphis School of Law. In conformity with the Association of American Law Schools (AALS), the University of Memphis School of Law may grant a transfer student academic credit up to the equivalent of three semesters for full-time students or up to the equivalent of four semesters for part-time students for work successfully completed at another AALS-accredited law school, and two semesters for full-time students or 2.6 semesters for part-time students for work successfully completed at a non-AALS school. Transfer applicants are eligible to compete for Moot Court and Mock Trial traveling teams, and those interested are encouraged to contact the Chief Justice of the Moot Court Board or the Moot Court Board Faculty Advisor, Professor Barbara Kritchevsky at bkrtchvs@memphis.edu . Transfer applicants are also encouraged to contact Career Services at 901.678.3217 or lawcareerservices@memphis.edu for information pertaining to recent graduate employment and fall recruitment programs. Transfer inquiries should be directed to the Law Admissions Office at 901.678.5403 or rpenny@memphis.edu. Visiting Admission A student who is in good standing at a law school accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) may request to take courses at the Cecil C Humphreys School of Law on a non-degree basis with the written permission of the Dean or the Dean's designee. Written permission from the applicant's current law school must be received before an application for visiting status will be reviewed. An individual interested in visiting status should complete the application form and pay the fee as well as submit a letter of good standing from his or her current law school, a letter of authorization from his or her current law school granting permission to take courses at the Cecil C Humphreys School of Law, a copy of the front page of the CAS report, a personal statement addressing the reasons for requesting visiting status, and an official law school transcript. The application deadlines for visiting admission are: November 15 (spring semester), April 15 (summer session) and July 15 (fall semester). Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application Guide LSAT Prep Transfer Information TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP) Part-Time Program Schedule a Visit Academic Curriculum Apply Now Check Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats Overview Class Profile Factsheet 2015 Viewbook Request a Viewbook Bragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of Costs Tuition Information Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Payment Academic Curriculum Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Recruiting Calendar Ask a Current Student Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ List Application Information LSAT Notification and Acceptance Curriculum Childcare City of Memphis Admitted Student Information Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .