#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11371
Assistant Professor of Biological Sciences Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant Professor of Biological Sciences Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC432 Advertised Title Assistant Professor of Biological Sciences Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 001491 Category Full-Time Faculty Department Biology Position Summary The Department of Biological Sciences at the University of Memphis( invites applications for a nine-month tenure-track position in animal physiology (research and teaching) at the Assistant Professor level, pending funding availability. Candidates must have a PhD, postdoctoral training, a record of peer-reviewed publication and scholarly accomplishments commensurate with experience, and evidence of funding potential. The successful candidate’s demonstrated focus will be animal physiology. Research emphasis and taxon is open, although those with a focus on organismal biology. Those that use integrative methodologies to study endocrine/neuroendocrine mechanisms that mediate behaviors are encouraged to apply. The successful candidate will be expected to teach both graduate and undergraduate courses and develop an externally funded research program involving MS and PhD students that complements existing strengths of faculty. Competitive start-up funds are available and salary will be commensurate with experience. Minimum Position Qualifications Candidates must have a PhD, post-doctoral experience, and a record of peer-reviewed publications and other scholarly accomplishments. Special Conditions Posting Date 10/29/2015 Closing Date 11/30/2015 Open Until Filled No Hiring Range Competitive and commensurate with experience. Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants The application process is online at: . Applicant must submit: 1. Cover Letter with statement of research interests 2. Curriculum Vitae 3. Teaching Philosophy 4. Email addresses of three reference providers Instructions to Applicant regarding references The Search Committee for the position has established that reference letters must be submitted in order for an applicant to be fully considered for this position. You must submit email addresses for three reference providers. The system, workForum, will send an email to your reference providers. You have the ability to track the status of these reference letters online. Please call 901.678.2581 if you have any questions concerning reference letters. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). * Where did you see this position advertised? (Open Ended Question) * Do you have any experience teaching majors or non-majors biology at the college level? Yes No * What other undergraduate and/or graduate level courses could you offer? (Open Ended Question) Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Cover Letter Teaching Philosophy References List Article Reprint 1 Optional Documents Article Reprint 2 Article Reprint 3