#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/edu/icl.php
ICL Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning ICL Courses INSTRUCTION AND CURRICULUM LEADERSHIP (ICL) NOTE: Course numbers at the end of the title are former numbers. If the course has been taken under this former number, it may not be repeated unless so specified. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: ICL 6950-59. Special Topics in Curriculum and Instruction. (1-3).(CIED 6950-59). Designed to allow for study of current topics in the areas of curriculum and instruction at all levels. May be repeated with a change in topic and content emphasis. See online class listings for exact topics. ICL 7150-59--8150-59. Special Topics. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listing. May be repeated when topics change. ICL 7950-69-8950-69. Advanced Topics in Instruction and Curriculum. (1-3). (CIED 7950-59-8950-59). Current topics in areas of instruction and curriculum at advanced levels. May be repeated with change in topic and content emphasis. See online class listings for topics. ICL 6121 - Lbry Mtrl Yng Peop/Adlts (3) Evaluation and selection of books and related library materials for leisure interests and curriculum needs of young people and adults from junior high school up; intensive reading, introduction to selection criteria, bibliographic aids, authors and illustrators, and types of literature and information books. ICL 6761 - Aerospace Ed In Schools (3) Consideration of aerospace content and flight experiences; emphasizes classroom applications. ICL 6762 - Adv Aerospace Ed Schls (3) Theory, principles, and practices related to the historical development of aerospace, with emphasis on both civilian and military uses of aerospace capabilities; appropriate utilization of aerospace research, concepts, and "spinoffs" for instructional purposes at all grade levels. PREREQUISITE: ICL 6761. ICL 7000 - Analysis Pract Teach I (3) Analysis of research on instruction and teaching practices; implementation of research based on strategies of developing instruction, facilitating, and assessing student learning. Field Experience: 4 hours. ICL 7001 - Fund Of Curriculum (3) Principles of organizing and developing the curriculum and curriculum directions, trends, and patterns. ICL 7002 - Curriculum Leadership (3) Application of curriculum and leadership theory to modern educational practices; emphasis on developing leadership styles to ensure implementation. ICL 7003 - Curric Design/Evalatn (3) Considers a variety of curriculum designs and their implications for educational practice. ICL 7004 - Innovative Curricula (3) Generic issues, problems, processes, and strategies relative to changes occurring with the implementation of innovative curricula. PREREQUISITES: ICL 7002, 7050. ICL 7008 - Sem Curric Improvement (3) An introduction to curriculum decision-making; includes curriculum development as a social process, issues and trends, theories and techniques of curriculum leadership, and translations of curriculum designs into practice. ICL 7010 - Analysis Pract Teach II (3) Intensive, interdisciplinary, and integrative study of models of teaching, curriculum assessment and evaluation, reading in content area, mainstreaming, multicultural concerns, and instructional technology; emphasis on theory, research, and skills through simulations and microteaching. PREREQUISITE: ICL 7000. ICL 7020 - Prof Develop Semnr I (1-3) Interpersonal and group process skills needed for teaching. ICL 7021 - Prof Develop Semnr II (1-3) Specialty teaching area in pedagogical skills application. ICL 7022 - Prof Develop Semnr III (1-3) Teacher roles, professional relationships, and professional development. ICL 7030 - Assessment & Evaluation (3) Test construction and methods of evaluation; emphasis on teacher made tests, standardized tests, test administration, test data management, interpretation and application of test data to instructional decisions, and reporting test results to students and parents. ICL 7032 - Classroom Management (2) Managing classroom environment; emphasis on constructive management techniques. Application of knowledge of human development and teaching and learning principles to development of classroom management systems. ICL 7040 - Integrated Tchg Strtgy (3) Curriculum, methods, and materials for teaching mathematics, science, and social studies to elementary school students. ICL 7051 - Simulation (1-3) Surveying, analyzing, and designing simulation activities appropriate for classroom situations; individual and group participatory activities. ICL 7054 - Creativity Tchg/Curric (3) Instructional strategies relevant to development of creative potential; activities include problem-solving, metaphoring, inventing, synectics, evaluation, questioning, brainstorming, creative writing and thinking, and spontaneity. ICL 7058 - Values Education (3) Major movements related to values education and analysis of strategies applicable to educational settings. ICL 7059 - Models of Instruction (3) Theory and research for instructional planning and assessing of selected models of instruction. ICL 7080 - Instr Multiethnic Schl (3) Survey, analysis, and design of curriculum and instruction that considers the multiethnic nature of students in the urban school and facilitates their academic and social growth. Field experience: 10 hours. ICL 7082 - Seminar in Urban Education (3) This course uses various forms of seminar discussion, graduate inquiry, and creative engagement to provide a focused deliberative environment to study urban education issues and trends. ICL 7100 - Fld Exp Intro Teaching (1) Structured observation and participation in schools; emphasis on management and instructional issues. Field experiences: 10 hours. ICL 7103 - Tchg Hlth Phy Act Nutr (3) Instructional techniques, curriculum, and materials for teaching health, physical activity, and nutrition in grades K-6; field experience 10 hours. PREREQUISITES: Admission to TEP or a licensed teacher and NUTR 7209, HPRO 7703, HPRO 7704. ICL 7104 - Accom Div Urb Lrnrs (3) Accommodations/modifications for diverse urban preK-13 students with individual needs in urban regular education classrooms, emphasizing students at risk for failure and focusing on creation of appropriate accommodations, differentiating instruction, and role of regular education teachers and education support personnel. ICL 7105 - Lang/Comm Inclusive Classrm (3) Instructing students with typical and exceptional communication needs. Includes interpreting speech/language assessment reports and designing instruction. Also use of augmentative and alternative communication devices and working with non-native English speaking students. Field Experience: Required. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 or equivalent. ICL 7106 - Prof/Eth Prac Inclusive Class (3) Education policy and practice: accountability, ethics, advocacy, and social challenges. Working with families and community stakeholders is highlighted. Instructional planning includes creating individual education plans, individual family service plans and transition planning. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 or equivalent. ICL 7130 - Elem School Curriculum (3) Analysis of curriculum theories, materials, and practices as they affect the child's potential and growth. ICL 7132 - Catalog/Classification (3) Introduction to principles and techniques of cataloging and classification of books and other library materials. ICL 7133 - School Library Admin (3) Organization and administration of elementary and secondary school libraries, including standards, evaluation, facilities, equipment, support, student assistants, and relationship to instructional and guidance programs of school. ICL 7134 - Internet in the School Library (3) Professional applications of instructional and communications technologies in the school library environment; the focus is on enhancing prospective school library information specialists' technological knowledge and skills in using the Internet. ICL 7138 - Sem In Elem Educ (3) Analysis of contemporary issues and trends in elementary education. ICL 7160 - Mdrn Meth Scndry Educ (3) Secondary school teaching and how the secondary school can perform its role most effectively. ICL 7161 - Methods/Middle School Science (3) Middle level principles, techniques, and materials for teaching science to students in grades 4-8; Clinical/field experience required. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. ICL 7162 - Methods/Middle School Lang (3) Middle level principles, techniques, and materials for teaching language arts to students in grades 4-8; Clinical/field experience required. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. ICL 7163 - Methods/Middle School Math (3) Middle level principles, techniques, and materials for teaching math to students in grades 4-8; Clinical/field experience required. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. ICL 7164 - Methods/Middle School Soc Stdy (3) Middle level principles, techniques, and materials for teaching social studies to students in grades 4-8; Clinical/field experience required. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. ICL 7165 - The Middle School (3) Investigation of emerging concepts of the middle school and trends in classroom procedures and curriculum. ICL 7168 - Semnr Secondary Educ (3) Analysis of problems, current issues, and trends in secondary education. ICL 7172 - Spec Mthds Soc Stu Educ (3) Critical analysis and research on significant issues in the field of secondary social studies education. ICL 7174 - Spec Mthds For Lang Ed (3) (Same as LING 7174). Examines theoretical and practical issues relating to teaching of foreign languages K-12 through lectures, reading of current literature, class discussion, guest speakers, etc.; explores role of context in comprehension and learning, listening, reading, oral proficiency, writing, testing, culture, and curriculum. Field Experience: 8 hours. Prerequisite: TEP admission. ICL 7300 - Cont Issues Lang Arts (3) Analysis of current trends and issues in the teaching of language arts: theory and research related to teaching models and their application in the language arts. ICL 7301 - Literature in PreK-12 School (3) Methods of teaching children's and adolescents' literature in the PreK-12 school environment, including storytelling, dramatization, choral speech work, fiction, nonfiction, drama, and poetry. ICL 7302 - Tchg Lit To Adolescents (3) Methods of teaching adolescent literature including fiction, non-fiction, drama, and poetry. ICL 7303 - Eng/Lan Comp Secnd Schl (3) Emphasis on developing and implementing a sequential curriculum in secondary school language and composition. Field Experience: 8 hours. Prerequisite: TEP admission ICL 7305 - Mphs Urban Wrtng II (3) Prepares K-12 teachers to improve their writing practices and assume a leadership role in writing instruction in their schools. ICL 7308 - Seminar Engl/Lang Arts (3) Emphasis on oral and written language models and how these models can be used in the development of a student-centered language arts curriculum. K-12. Field Experience: 8 hours. ICL 7309 - Dev Instructional Ldrs (3) Application of development of instructional leaders, mentors and coaches within in a school environment; emphasis on developing leadership styles to ensure implementation of multiple initiatives and support colleagues for personal growth ICL 7310 - Supptng Cont Spec Inst (3) Application of development of instructional leaders, mentors and coaches within a school environment; emphasis on developing instructional skills to support various coaches within a district ICL 7500 - Adv Math Elem Sch (3) Models of elementary school mathematics instruction; history, philosophy, and research supporting those models. PREREQUISITE: Teacher licensure. ICL 7501 - Elem Sch Math Curr (3) Issues and trends in elementary school mathematics curriculum. Appropriate current reports of professional groups will be considered. ICL 7502 - Tchg Mathematics SCED (3) Consideration of principles and techniques of teaching mathematics in secondary schools including study and evaluation of materials of instruction. Field experience: 8 hours. Prerequisite: TEP admission ICL 7503 - Secndry Math Ed Curric (3) Analysis of the secondary mathematics curriculum as it relates to sound educational practices. ICL 7504 - Methods Math Elem (3) Instructional techniques, curriculum, and materials for teaching mathematics to elementary school students. Field Experience: 10 hours. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. ICL 7508 - Sem Mathematics Educ (3) Study and discussion of selected mathematics education topics of concern or special interest. May be repeated with a change in topics. ICL 7600 - Adv Science Elem (3) Models of science instruction; history, philosophy, and research supporting these models. PREREQUISITE: Teacher licensure. ICL 7601 - Elem Science Curriculum (3) Examination of science curriculum materials; focus on procedures for evaluation of curriculum and materials and analysis of local curricula in science; includes techniques for conducting science workshops and in-service programs. ICL 7602 - Tchg Sci Scndry Schl (3) An examination and analysis of modern science teaching strategies in the secondary school; emphasis on information processing and classroom learning strategies. Field experience: 8 hours. Prerequisite: TEP admission ICL 7603 - Scndry Schl Sci Curr (3) Analysis of secondary science content and materials; emphasis on current concepts of the science curriculum and the selection of appropriate materials for teaching the various sciences. ICL 7605 - Methods Elem Science (3) Instruction techniques, curriculum, and materials for teaching science to elementary school students. Field experience: 10 hours. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. ICL 7608 - Sem Science Education (3) A survey of selected problems and topics in science education. ICL 7650 - Adv Elem Soc Studies (3) Advanced strategies for social studies instruction and history, philosophy, and research supporting those strategies. PREREQUISITE: Teacher licensure. ICL 7652 - Tchng Soc Std Mid/Sec (3) Consideration of principles and techniques for teaching secondary social studies. Additional field hours required. PREREQUISITE: TEP admission ICL 7653 - Mid/Sec Soc Std Curric (3) Analysis of programs and curricular materials for secondary social studies education. ICL 7654 - Methods Elem Soc Studies (3) Instruction techniques, curriculum, and materials for teaching social studies to elementary school students. Field experience: 10 hours. PREREQUISITE: Admission to TEP. ICL 7657 - Hist of Soc Stu Education (3) Historical examination and analysis of the development of social studies in education. ICL 7658 - Seminar Soc Stu Education (3) Survey and evaluation of social and controversial issues and trends in the social studies education. ICL 7701 - Adv Wksp ICL:Urban Educ (3) This course requires investigations of Urban Education issues in schools and topic of inquiry will change if course is repeated. ICL 7702 - Adv Topics in ICL:Urban Educ (3) Current topics in areas of instruction and curriculum at advanced levels in Urban Education. This course addresses current research and issues in Urban Education school environments. ICL 7704 - Wksp/Nwspaper In Clasrm (3) . ICL 7705 - Adv Mgng Lrng Environ (3) Teacher's role in integrated approach to managing classroom's physical and behavioral learning environments, school curriculum, and pupil development and learning. ICL 7706 - Family/Comm Relations (3) Analysis of family, cultural, and community patterns in relation to the teacher's roles and responsibilities for building educational partnerships. ICL 7707 - Using Data to Inform Teaching (3) This course helps teachers gain knowledge and skill in using various forms of data to improve student learning and achievement. It includes data-driven teaching and decision making, data sources and measures, differentiating instruction, and action planning to guide instruction, curriculum and assessment. ICL 7709 - Urban Lrng Environment (3) Use of appropriate knowledge and skills for managing the total learning environment in both the early and middle school settings; emphasis on developing knowledge and skills that facilitate effective teaching through appropriate instructional and behavioral management techniques. Field experiences: 10 hours. Prerequisite: TEP admission ICL 7720 - STEM Curriculum Leadership (3) Focus on curriculum standards and trends in mathematics, science, and engineering education. Topics include: introduction to the standards; the relationship between curriculum and equity; implications of the standards for instructional practice; the integration of technology and engineering; and the alignment between standards and curriculum materials. ICL 7721 - STEM Teacher Development (3) Focus on theory and practice around STEM teacher learning and professional development. The course will explore research-based practices and models of STEM professional development. ICL 7722 - Teaching and Learning in STEM (3) Focus on student-centered instructional models with particular attention to approaches that integrate science, engineering, technology, and mathematics. ICL 7723 - Equity in STEM Education (3) Focus on the history of mathematics and science education as it relates to equity and opportunity to learn. Additional topics include: culturally relevant pedagogy in mathematics and science; STEM education in urban schools; strategies for teaching mathematics and science to linguistically diverse students; teaching for social justice; and technology and opportunity to learn. ICL 7730 - Found Librarianship (3) Introduction to librarianship as a profession and library as institution in cultural and political setting; influences of social issues, societal needs, professional organizations, and federal legislation on goals, ethics, organization, programs, and problems of libraries and librarians. ICL 7731 - Intro To Bibliography (3) Theory and purpose of bibliography as form of access to information; emphasis on general reference sources; introduction to principles, practices, and methods of reference service. ICL 7800 - Adv Clinical Practicum (3-9) Includes student teaching, supervised practicum, and other similarly organized professional experiences; designed to complement on-campus course study with actual on-site professional experience. COREQUISITE: ICL 7993. Grades of A-F will be given. ICL 7801 - Talented & Mently Gifted (3) Historical and societal perceptions and definitions of the talented and mentally gifted individuals; their social, emotional and learning processes. ICL 7802 - Spec Populations/Gifted (3) Examination of the nature and needs of gifted and talented students whose performance is affected by some condition interfering with optimal growth. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7801 or ICL 7801. ICL 7803 - Intern Kindergarten (3-9) Includes student teaching, supervised practicum, and other similarly organized professional experiences; designed to complement on-campus course study with actual on-site professional experience. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 7804 - Erly Chldhd Stu Tchg (3-9) Includes student teaching experiences in both Pre-Kindergarten or Kindergarten, and Primary grades 1-3. COREQUISITE: ICL 7993. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 7805 - Intern Elem Schl (3-9) Includes student teaching, supervised practicum, and other similarly organized professional experiences; designed to complement on-campus course study with actual on-site professional experience. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 7806 - Elem Student Tchg (3-9) Includes student teaching, supervised practicum, and other similarly organized professional experiences; designed to complement on-campus course study with actual on-site professional experience. COREQUISITE: ICL 7993. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 7807 - Intern Scndry Schl (3-9) Includes student teaching, supervised practicum, and other similarly organized professional experiences; designed to complement on-campus course study with actual on-site professional experience. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 7808 - Clinical Teaching Semester (3-9) Full-time clinical placement appropriate to candidate's area of licensure providing opportunities to demonstrate professional competencies associated with successful teaching and student achievement. Capstone performance assessment required for successful completion. PREREQUISITE: admission to the TEP, and passing all required licensure exams. COREQUISITE: ICL 7993 ICL 7810 - Teacher Leader Practicum (3) The teacher leader practicum will focus on creating a school climate to strengthen student achievement by developing instructional supports. These supports may include the creation of instructional plans for struggling teachers, implementing professional learning communities and developing a year long professional development plan for a school ICL 7811 - Mthd Tchg Giftd/Ac Tltd (3) Teaching strategies for fostering gifted behavior at preschool, elementary, and secondary levels; procedures and criteria of evaluation, curriculum sequences and guides, alternative strategies for curriculum development, the writing and implementing of individualized educational plans. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7801-8801 or ICL 7801-8801. ICL 7822 - Adv Mthd Giftd/Ac Tltd (3) Examination of provisions of services to gifted students in other than traditional enrichment programs. PREREQUISITES: SPED 7801, 7811 or ICL 7801, 7811. ICL 7850 - Suprvsn Student Tchg (3) Principles and techniques of student teaching supervision; designed for supervising teachers, administrators, coordinators of student teaching programs, and college personnel. Grades of A-F will be given. ICL 7912 - Fndtns/NBPTS Candidacy (3) Develops thorough understanding of National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, including performance-based assessments such as student work samples and reflection papers, as well as analyses of classroom teaching, classroom discourse, and learning through videotape analysis. ICL 7913 - St Tchg Mid Grds (3-9) Includes student teaching, supervised practicum, and other similarly organized professional experiences; designed to complement on-campus course study with actual on-site professional experience. COREQUISITE: ICL 7993. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 7953 - Writing for Academic Publicatn (3) Learning to master the discourses necessary to succeed in academic writing; focus on genres of academic writing; emphasis on strategies for successful academic work based on publication. ICL 7991 - Independent Study (1-9) Includes special problems, field studies, and other similarly organized professional experiences under the direct supervision of a faculty member within the department; emphasis on student planning, initiating, conducting, and completing independent studies, projects, etc., designed to meet programmatic goals and individual needs. Grades of A-F will be given. ICL 7992 - Master's Project (3) Designed as a culminating experience; direct participation is required for the successful completion of a field-study, on-site project or other classroom-based experience. This course must be taken during the semester the student will graduate. ID&T students must contact advisor before registering for Master's Project. PREREQUISTE: EDPR 7523 or EDPR 7521 and, for MAT and Licensure-Only students, completion of Student Teaching requirement. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 7993 - Professional Seminar (3) An integrative capstone seminar for advanced post-baccalaureate teacher certification students; students will apply reflective, analytical, and critical thinking to selected issues regarding school curriculum, teaching methods, professional ethics, legal issues, leadership and advocacy, professional relations, communication, and problem solving. ICL 7994 - Developing Proposals (3) Procedures and techniques for development of research, project, and grant proposals; emphasis on development of proposal for research study or in response to funding request. PREREQUISITES: ICL 7079-8079 and 9 hours of research or permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Prospectus must be approved by the faculty committee directing this research study. Application for writing thesis must be filed with the Director of Graduate Studies. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. ICL 7999 - Experiential Learning Credit (1-15) Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) is a highly individualized process whereby students can use the learning outcomes that they have earned through a broad range of experiences to petition for college credit. ICL 8000 - Spec Culmn Experience (1-6) Thesis, internship, field study, or special project designed under direction of student's committee. Serves as capstone experience in Education Specialist Program. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 8002 - Curriculum Leadership (3) Application of curriculum and leadership theory to modern educational practices; emphasis on developing leadership styles to ensure implementation. ICL 8003 - Curric Design/Evalatn (3) Considers a variety of curriculum designs and their implications for educational practice. ICL 8004 - Innovative Curricula (3) Generic issues, problems, processes, and strategies relative to changes occurring with the implementation of innovative curricula. PREREQUISITES: ICL 7002, 7050. ICL 8005 - The Nature of Knowledge (3) This course will be offered to doctoral students to provide an overview and introduction to epistemology and the philosophical perspectives concerning the nature and acquisition of knowledge and belief. It is designed to increase the research skills of graduate students and to position to them to conduct research grounded in understandings of theory, knowledge, and scholarship. ICL 8008 - Sem Curric Improvement (3) An introduction to curriculum decision-making; includes curriculum development as a social process, issues and trends, theories and techniques of curriculum leadership, and translations of curriculum designs into practice. ICL 8051 - Simulation (1-3) Surveying, analyzing, and designing simulation activities appropriate for classroom situations; individual and group participatory activities. ICL 8054 - Creativity Tchg/Curric (3) Instructional strategies relevant to development of creative potential; activities include problem-solving, metaphoring, inventing, synectics, evaluation, questioning, brainstorming, creative writing and thinking, and spontaneity. ICL 8058 - Values Education (3) Major movements related to values education and analysis of strategies applicable to educational settings. ICL 8082 - Seminar in Urban Education (3) This course uses various forms of seminar discussion, graduate inquiry, and creative engagement to provide a focused deliberative environment to study urban education issues and trends. ICL 8105 - Lang/Comm Inclusive Classrm (3) Instructing students with typical and exceptional communication needs. Includes interpreting speech/language assessment reports and designing instruction. Also use of augmentative and alternative communication devices and working with non-native English speaking students. Field experience: 8 hours. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 or equivalent. ICL 8106 - Prof/Eth Prac Inclusive Class (3) Education policy and practice: accountability, ethics, advocacy, and social challenges. Working with families and community stakeholders is highlighted. Instructional planning includes creating individual education plans, individual family service plans and transition planning. PREREQUISITE: SSPED 7000 or equivalent. ICL 8130 - Elem School Curriculum (3) Analysis of curriculum theories, materials, and practices as they affect the child's potential and growth. ICL 8138 - Sem In Elem Educ (3) Analysis of contemporary issues and trends in elementary education. ICL 8150 - Qual Research in Schools (3) This course will focus on the application of qualitative research in school, classroom, and out-of-school educational settings (e.g., afterschool programs, community centers). this course will explore ethical and methodological issues specfic to these contexts. ICL 8160 - Mdrn Meth Scndry Educ (3) Secondary school teaching and how the secondary school can perform its role most effectively. ICL 8165 - The Middle School (3) Investigation of emerging concepts of the middle school and trends in classroom procedures and curriculum. ICL 8172 - Spec Mthds Soc Stu Edu (3) Critical analysis and research on significant issues in the field of secondary social studies education. ICL 8200 - Prof Sem/Doctoral Stdnt (3) Emphasis on how to be an effective doctoral student and college professor; three areas of focus are teaching, research, and service. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours. PREREQUISITE: Admission to the doctoral program.Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 8300 - Cont Issues Lang Arts (3) Analysis of current trends and issues in the teaching of language arts: theory and research related to teaching models and their application in the language arts. ICL 8301 - Literature in PreK-12 School (3) Methods of teaching children's literature in the elementary school, including storytelling, dramatization, and choral speech work. ICL 8302 - Tchg Lit To Adolescents (3) Methods of teaching adolescent literature including fiction, non-fiction, drama, and poetry. ICL 8303 - Eng/Lan Comp Secnd Schl (3) Emphasis on developing and implementing a sequential curriculum in secondary school language and composition. Field Experience: 8 hours. ICL 8308 - Seminar Engl/Lang Arts (3) Emphasis on oral and written language models and how these models can be used in the development of a student-centered language arts curriculum. K-12. Field Experience: 8 hours. ICL 8309 - Dev Instructional Ldrs (3) Application of development of instructional leaders, mentors and coaches within in a school environment; emphasis on developing leadership styles to ensure implementation of multiple initiatives and support colleagues for personal growth ICL 8310 - Supptng Cont Spec Inst (3) Application of development of instructional leaders, mentors and coaches within a school environment; emphasis on developing instructional skills to support various coaches within a district ICL 8500 - Adv Math Elem Sch (3) Models of elementary school mathematics instruction; history, philosophy, and research supporting those models. PREREQUISITE: Teacher licensure. ICL 8501 - Elem Sch Math Curr (3) Issues and trends in elementary school mathematics curriculum. Appropriate current reports of professional groups will be considered. ICL 8502 - Tchg Mathematics SCED (3) Consideration of principles and techniques of teaching mathematics in secondary schools including study and evaluation of materials of instruction. Field experience: 8 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ICL 8503 - Secndry Math Ed Curric (3) Analysis of the secondary mathematics curriculum as it relates to sound educational practices. ICL 8508 - Sem Mathematics Educ (3) Study and discussion of selected mathematics education topics of concern or special interest. May be repeated with a change in topics. ICL 8600 - Adv Science Elem (3) Models of science instruction; history, philosophy, and research supporting these models. PREREQUISITE: Teacher licensure. ICL 8601 - Elem Science Curriculum (3) Examination of science curriculum materials; focus on procedures for evaluation of curriculum and materials and analysis of local curricula in science; includes techniques for conducting science workshops and in-service programs. ICL 8602 - Tchg Sci Scndry Schl (3) An examination and analysis of modern science teaching strategies in the secondary school; emphasis on information processing and classroom learning strategies. Field experience: 8 hours. ICL 8608 - Sem Science Education (3) A survey of selected problems and topics in science education. ICL 8650 - Adv Elem Soc Studies (3) Advanced strategies for social studies instruction and history, philosophy, and research supporting those strategies. PREREQUISITE: Teacher licensure. ICL 8652 - Tchng Soc Std Mid/Sec (3) Consideration of principles and techniques for teaching secondary social studies. Field experience: 8 hours. ICL 8653 - Mid/Sec Soc Std Curric (3) Analysis of programs and curricular materials for secondary social studies education. ICL 8657 - Hist of Soc Studies Educatn (3) Historical examination and analysis of the development of social studies in education. ICL 8658 - Seminar Soc Stu Education (3) Survey and evaluation of social and controversial issues and trends in the social studies education. ICL 8701 - Adv Wksp ICL:Urban Educ (3) This course requires investigations of Urban Education issues in schools and topic of inquiry will change if course is repeated. ICL 8702 - Adv Topics in ICL:Urban Educ (3) Current topics in areas of instruction and curriculum at advanced levels in Urban Education. This course addresses current research and issues in Urban Education school environments. ICL 8704 - Wksp/Nwspaper In Clasrm (3) (CIED 7704-8804). ICL 8705 - Adv Mgng Lrng Environ (3) Teacher's role in integrated approach to managing classroom's physical and behavioral learning environments, school curriculum, and pupil development and learning. ICL 8707 - Using Data to Inform Teaching (3) This course helps teachers gain knowledge and skill in using various forms of data to improve student learning and achievement. It includes data-driven teaching and decision making, data sources and measures, differentiating instruction, and action planning to guide instruction, curriculum and assessment. ICL 8720 - STEM Curriculum Leadership (3) Focus on curriculum standards and trends in mathematics, science, and engineering education. Topics include: introduction to the standards; the relationship between curriculum and equity; implications of the standards for instructional practice; the integration of technology and engineering; and the alignment between standards and curriculum materials. ICL 8721 - STEM Teacher Development (3) Focus on theory and practice around STEM teacher learning and professional development. The course will explore research-based practices and models of STEM professional development. ICL 8722 - Teaching and Learning in STEM (3) Focus on student-centered instructional models with particular attention to approaches that integrate science, engineering, technology, and mathematics. ICL 8723 - Equity in STEM Education (3) Focus on the history of mathematics and science education as it relates to equity and opportunity to learn. Additional topics include: culturally relevant pedagogy in mathematics and science; STEM education in urban schools; strategies for teaching mathematics and science to linguistically diverse students; teaching for social justice; and technology and opportunity to learn. ICL 8801 - Talented & Mently Gifted (3) Historical and societal perceptions and definitions of the talented and mentally gifted individuals; their social, emotional and learning processes. ICL 8802 - Spec Populations/Gifted (3) Examination of the nature and needs of gifted and talented students whose performance is affected by some condition interfering with optimal growth. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7801 or ICL 7801. ICL 8803 - Intern Kindergarten (3-9) Includes student teaching, supervised practicum, and other similarly organized professional experiences; designed to complement on-campus course study with actual on-site professional experience. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 8804 - Erly Chldhd Student Tchg (3-9) Includes student teaching experiences in both Pre-Kindergarten or Kindergarten, and Primary grades 1-3. COREQUISITE: ICL 7993. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 8805 - Intern Elem Schl (3-9) Includes student teaching, supervised practicum, and other similarly organized professional experiences; designed to complement on-campus course study with actual on-site professional experience. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 8806 - Elem Student Tchg (3-9) Includes student teaching, supervised practicum, and other similarly organized professional experiences; designed to complement on-campus course study with actual on-site professional experience. COREQUISITE: ICL 7993. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 8807 - Intern Scndry Schl (3-9) Includes student teaching, supervised practicum, and other similarly organized professional experiences; designed to complement on-campus course study with actual on-site professional experience. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 8808 - SCED Student Tchg (3-9) Includes student teaching, supervised practicum, and other similarly organized professional experiences; designed to complement on-campus course study with actual on-site professional experience. COREQUISITE: ICL 7993. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 8810 - Teacher Leader Practicum (3) The teacher leader practicum will focus on creating a school climate to strengthen student achievement by developing instructional supports. These supports may include the creation of instructional plans for struggling teachers, implementing professional learning communities and developing a year long professional development plan for a school ICL 8811 - Mthd Tchg Giftd/Ac Tltd (3) Teaching strategies for fostering gifted behavior at preschool, elementary, and secondary levels; procedures and criteria of evaluation, curriculum sequences and guides, alternative strategies for curriculum development, the writing and implementing of individualized educational plans. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7801-8801 or ICL 7801-8801. ICL 8822 - Adv Mthd Giftd/Ac Tltd (3) Examination of provisions of services to gifted students in other than traditional enrichment programs. PREREQUISITES: SPED 7801, 7811 or ICL 7801, 7811. ICL 8850 - Suprvsn Student Tchg (3) Principles and techniques of student teaching supervision; designed for supervising teachers, administrators, coordinators of student teaching programs, and college personnel. Grades of A-F will be given. ICL 8912 - Fndtns/NBPTS Candidacy (3) Develops thorough understanding of National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, including performance-based assessments such as student work samples and reflection papers, as well as analyses of classroom teaching, classroom discourse, and learning through videotape analysis. ICL 8953 - Writing for Academic Publicatn (3) Learning to master the discourses necessary to succeed in academic writing; focus on genres of academic writing; emphasis on strategies for successful academic work based on publication. ICL 8991 - Independent Study (1-9) Includes special problems, field studies, and other similarly organized professional experiences under the direct supervision of a faculty member within the department; emphasis on student planning, initiating, conducting, and completing independent studies, projects, etc., designed to meet programmatic goals and individual needs. Grades of A-F will be given. ICL 8994 - Developing Proposals (3) Procedures and techniques for development of research, project, and grant proposals; emphasis on development of proposal for research study or in response to funding request. PREREQUISITES: ICL 7079-8079 and 9 hours of research or permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 8995 - Research Seminar (3-6) Survey and analysis of research in the varied disciplines of curriculum and instruction. To be taken during the doctoral residency. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 8998 - Directed Reading (1-3) Individually directed readings culminating in synthesis of ideas. May be repeated with change in topic for 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 8999 - Supervised Research ICL (1-6) Collaborative research with faculty including planning, design, management, analysis, and reporting of research. May be repeated for maximum of 12 hours. PREREQUISITES: Minimum of 12 hours in concentration and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ICL 9000 - Dissertation (1-12) Credit may be earned over a period of several semesters. The dissertation may be an organized scientific contribution or a comprehensive analysis of theory and practice in a specific area. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (ECED) ECED 6510 - Erly Chld Prgms/Pr (3) Applying professional knowledge to early childhood education values and principles, programs and practices, issues, problems, and trends; exploring early childhood teacher roles and responsibilities through observations in multicultural early childhood program settings. Field experience is required. PREREQUISITE: TEP admission or permission of instructor. ECED 6520 - Pln/Fclt Scl Lrng/Dev (3) Planning, implementing, and evaluating programs to facilitate young children's social learning from birth-age 8; socialization, social science skills, knowledge, and dispositions in context of integrating content instruction and learning. Field experience is required. PREREQUISITE: TEP admission or permission of instructor. ECED 6530 - Pln/Fclt Math/Sci Lrng (3) Provides knowledge, skills, and dispositions necessary to plan for and facilitate development and learning of physical, logico-mathematical, and social knowledge of mathematics and science for children from birth through 8 years. Field experience is required. PREREQUISITE: ECED 6510 and TEP admission, or permission of instructor. ECED 6540 - Pln/Fclt Infnt/Tdlr Dev (3) Models, principles, curriculum, and practices of developmentally appropriate infant/toddler caregiving; emphasis on teacher's knowledge of child development, skills, and dispositions necessary to foster infant and toddler development in group care settings. Field experience is required. PREREQUISITES: ECED 6510 and TEP admission or permission of instructor. ECED 7100 - Foundtn/Early Child Ed (3) Examination of historical, philosophical, psychological, and societal factors influencing development, modification, and implementation of programs for young children and their families. ECED 7101 - Early Child Teach/Learn (3) Incorporates knowledge of child development, early childhood curriculum models, and instructional methodologies to more effectively meet educational needs of young children in diverse environments. ECED 7102 - Obs/Asmt Intsv Chld Stg (3) Advanced level course on assessing developmental perspectives on measurement and evaluation in early childhood years. Consideration is given to standardized tests, observations, checklists, rating scales, and tests designed by teachers; their advantages and disadvantages for use with young children; and professional ethical issues regarding evaluating young children. Field experience is required. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7110. ECED 7103 - Ltrcy Dvlp/Erly Chldhd (3) Advanced level of theoretical,cognitive, and developmentally appropriate practice in language development and literacy processes from birth to age 8. Research studies on instructional strategies and assessment on literacy and language acquisition and development from sociocultural perspectives. ECED 7104 - Play/Erly Chldhd Dev (3) Analysis of role of play in young children's development and learning from birth through age 8; developmentally appropriate applications of play theory and research to young child's physical, intellectual, language, social, and emotional development and learning. ECED 7107 - Constructivism In ECED (3) Analysis of constructivist theory and research with emphasis on implications for early childhood curriculum, the ecology of the learning environment, and the role of the teacher. PREREQUISITES: Licensure and experience in early childhood education or a related area. ECED 7108 - Sem Erly Chldhd Ed (3) Analysis of contemporary issues and trends in the field of early childhood education. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours with a change in topic. ECED 7109 - Admin Prog Young Child (3) Enhances knowledge, skills, and dispositions for management, leadership, and child advocacy; applies knowledge of child development, appropriate practices, early childhood standards, and management competencies while examining programming for children involving families, personnel management, fiscal responsibilities, and accreditation processes. ECED 7113 - Rsrch/Erly Chd/Math/Sci (3) Current topics in the areas of early childhood instruction and curriculum at advanced levels, focusing on current issues and research in early learning and teaching of mathematics and science. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7521 or equivalent, ECED 7100-8100. ECED 7115 - Rdng Erly Chld Ed Rsrch (3) Survey and analysis of contemporary issues and trends in early childhood education research; translating research into practical applications in early childhood settings. ECED 8100 - Foundtn/Early Child Ed (3) Examination of historical, philosophical, psychological, and societal factors influencing development, modification, and implementation of programs for young children and their families. ECED 8101 - Early Child Teach/Learn (3) Incorporates knowledge of child development, early childhood curriculum models, and instructional methodologies to more effectively meet educational needs of young children in diverse environments. ECED 8102 - Obs/Asmt Intsv Chld Stg (3) Advanced level course on assessing developmental perspectives on measurement and evaluation in early childhood years. Consideration is given to standardized tests, observations, checklists, rating scales, and tests designed by teachers; their advantages and disadvantages for use with young children; and professional ethical issues regarding evaluating young children. Field experience is required. PREQUISITE: EDPR 7110. ECED 8103 - Ltrcy Dvlp/Erly Chldhd (3) Advanced level of theoretical,cognitive, and developmentally appropriate practice in language development and literacy processes from birth to age 8. Research studies on instructional strategies and assessment on literacy and language acquisition and development from sociocultural perspectives. ECED 8104 - Play/Erly Chldhd Dev (3) Analysis of role of play in young children's development and learning from birth through age 8; developmentally appropriate applications of play theory and research to young child's physical, intellectual, language, social, and emotional development and learning. ECED 8107 - Constructivism in ECED (3) Analysis of constructivist theory and research with emphasis on implications for early childhood curriculum, the ecology of the learning environment, and the role of the teacher. PREREQUISITES: Licensure and experience in early childhood education or a related area. ECED 8108 - Sem Erly Chldhd Ed (3) Analysis of contemporary issues and trends in the field of early childhood education. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credit hours with a change in topic. ECED 8109 - Admin Prog Young Child (3) Enhances knowledge, skills, and dispositions for management, leadership, and child advocacy; applies knowledge of child development, appropriate practices, early childhood standards, and management competencies while examining programming for children involving families, personnel management, fiscal responsibilities, and accreditation processes. ECED 8110 - Readings Early Chld (1-3) Individually directed reading; written report required. May be repeated for a maximum of 9 credits. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ECED 8112 - Research Early Chld Ed (1-6) Collaborative research with faculty, including planning, design, management, analysis, and reporting of research. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITES: Minimum of 12 hours in concentration and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. ECED 8113 - Rsrch/Erly Chd/Math/Sci (3) Current topics in the areas of early childhood instruction and curriculum at advanced levels, focusing on current issues and research in early learning and teaching of mathematics and science. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7521 or equivalent, ECED 7100-8100. ECED 8115 - Rdng Erly Chld Ed Rsrch (3) Survey and analysis of contemporary issues and trends in early childhood education research; translating research into practical applications in early childhood settings. INSTRUCTIONAL DESIGN AND TECHNOLOGY (IDT) IDT 7052 - Intro Instr Design & Technlgy (3) In-depth overview of field of instructional technology; history, philosophy, and critical issues of the field; foundations and applications of instructional technology, and associated areas of research. IDT 7060 - Technology Tools for Learning (3) Focuses on design and development of media, paper-based and electronic, to support learning; students will create products to solve instructional problems through a survey of various technologies. IDT 7061 - Technlgy Integratn in Classrm (3) Computers and technology in the instructional process, including problem solving using computer tools; technological applications for the classroom; uses for technology in different content areas. IDT 7062 - Intro Computer Based Instructn (3) Application of instructional design principles to creation of computer-based instruction; emphasis on use of authoring and scripting systems to create instructional software. PREREQUISITE: Must have passed an introductory computer literacy course or permission of instructor. IDT 7063 - Seminar Instructnal Computing (3) Analysis of issues and trends related to instructional computing and instructional technology in K-12 classroom. IDT 7064 - School Change and the Internet (3) Issues, processes, and strategies relative to changes occurring with design, implementation, and evaluation of Internet technologies in instructional environments. PREREQUISITE: IDT 7060-8060, IDT 7061-8061, or permission of instructor. IDT 7070 - Instructional Design Process I (3) Applies the instructional design process to conduct a needs assessment that supports the creation of self-paced instructional units addressing performance and learning problems for PK-12 education, business, health care, and related learning environments. IDT 7071 - Principles & Appl Instr Design (3) Application of instructional design principles to solve performance and instructional problems in educational and non-educational environments. IDT 7072 - Seminar on Online Instruction (3) Application of instructional design principles to development of online instruction. Beginning and intermediate students work together; covers beginning content when taken first and may be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours for more advanced content. PREREQUISITE: IDT 7070-8070 or permission of instructor. IDT 7073 - Sem Computer Based Lnrng Envrn (3) Applying instructional design principles to develop of computer-based learning environments. Beginning and intermediate students work together. Course covers beginning content when taken first. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours for more advanced content. PREQREQUIISTE: IDT 7070-8070 or permission of instructor. IDT 7074 - Thry/Models Instructnal Design (3) A critical examination of instructional design theories from the perspective of supporting research and application. IDT 7075 - Instrctnl/Performnce Consultng (3) Learning how to be an instructional and performance consultant. Applying procedural and interpersonal skills when working with clients to design, develop, and evaluate learning and performance environments. PREREQUISITE: IDT 7070-8080 or permission of instructor IDT 7076 - Seminar in Workshop Design (3) Technical and theoretical principles for developing effective seminars and workshops. Design, preparation, and implementation skills are developed for effective adult learning environments. PREREQUISITES: IDT 7070-8070 and research or statistics course. IDT 7078 - Seminr Instrct Design&Technlgy (3) Professional and research problems in instructional strategies, design, and technology. May be repeated once with a change in topic. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. IDT 7080 - Instructnal Design Process II (3) Prepares students to understand and apply instructional design principles to evaluate instructional materials that are designed to solve performance and learning problems. Applies the instructional design process to create a self-paced instructional unit based on documentation produced in IDT 7070-8070. IDT 7090 - Dev Interactve Lrng Envirnmt I (3) Students use instructional design principles and models to develop interactive learning environments. Students learn current development tools to create effective, efficient and appealing learning environments. Beginning and advanced students work together. Covers beginning content when taken first. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours for advanced content. PREREQUISITE: IDT 7060-8060 and 7070-8070, and 7080-8080 or permission of instructor. IDT 7095 - Dev Intractve Lrng Envirnmt II (3) Teams of students use instructional design principles to design and develop an instructional system, emphasizing advanced development skills with current technologies. Students contract with real clients, define project goals and timelines, manage instructional design projects, and document the instructional design process. PREREQUISITE: IDT 7090-8090 or permission of instructor. IDT 7230 - Instructional Text Design (3) Introduction to application and techniques of producing and processing instructional text and images. PREREQUISITES: IDT 7070-8070 or permission of instructor. IDT 7810 - Practicum Instr Design/Technlg (3-9) Planned, supervised experience in an instructional setting appropriate to student's specialization area of instructional design and technology. The student will have the opportunity to synthesize knowledge and skills and demonstrate professional competencies in educational or training settings. PREREQUISITES: IDT 7070-8070 and 3 additional hours of IDT graduate coursework. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. IDT 8052 - Intro Instr Design & Technlgy (3) In-depth overview of field of instructional technology; history, philosophy, and critical issues of the field; foundations and applications of instructional technology, and associated areas of research. IDT 8060 - Technology Tools for Learning (3) Focuses on design and development of media, paper-based and electronic, to support learning; students will create products to solve instructional problems through a survey of various technologies. IDT 8061 - Technlgy Integratn in Classrm (3) Computers and technology in the instructional process, including problem solving using computer tools; technological applications for the classroom; uses for technology in different content areas. IDT 8062 - Intro Computer Based Instructn (3) Application of instructional design principles to creation of computer-based instruction; emphasis on use of authoring and scripting systems to create instructional software. PREREQUISITE: Must have passed an introductory computer literacy course or permission of instructor. IDT 8063 - Seminar Instructnal Computing (3) Analysis of issues and trends related to instructional computing and instructional technology in K-12 classroom. PREREQUISITE: Six hours of coursework in IDT. IDT 8064 - School Change and the Internet (3) Issues, processes, and strategies relative to changes occurring with design, implementation, and evaluation of Internet technologies in instructional environments. PREREQUISITE: IDT 7060-8060, IDT 7061, or permission of instructor. IDT 8070 - Instructional Design Process I (3) Applies the instructional design process to conduct a needs assessment that supports the creation of self-paced instructional units addressing performance and learning problems for PK-12 education, business, health care, and related learning environments. IDT 8071 - Principles & Appl Instr Design (3) Application of instructional design principles to solve performance and instructional problems in educational and non-educational environments. IDT 8072 - Seminar on Online Instruction (3) Application of instructional design principles to development of online instruction. Beginning and intermediate students work together; covers beginning content when taken first and may be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours for more advanced content. PREREQUISITE: IDT 7070-8070 or permission of instructor. IDT 8073 - Sem Computer Based Lnrng Envrn (3) Application of instructional design principles to development of computer-based learning environment. Beginning and intermediate students work together; covers beginning content when taken first and may be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours for more advanced content. PREREQUISITE: IDT 7070-8070 or permission of instructor. IDT 8074 - Thry/Models Instructnal Design (3) A critical examination of instructional design theories from the perspective of supporting research and application. IDT 8075 - Instrctnl/Performnce Consultng (3) Learning how to be an instructional and performance consultant. Applying procedural and interpersonal skills when working with clients to design, develop, and evaluate learning and performance environments. PREREQUISITE: IDT 7070-8070 or permission of instructor. IDT 8076 - Seminar in Workshop Design (3) Technical and theoretical principles for developing effective seminars and workshops. Design, preparation, and implementation skills are developed for effective adult learning environments. PREREQUISITES: IDT 7070-8070 and research or statistics course. IDT 8078 - Seminr Instrct Design&Technlgy (3) Professional and research problems in instructional strategies, design, and technology. May be repeated once with a change in topic. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. IDT 8080 - Instructnal Design Process II (3) Prepares students to understand and apply instructional design principles to evaluate instructional materials that are designed to solve performance and learning problems. Applies the instructional design process to create a self-paced instructional unit based on documentation produced in IDT 7070-8070. IDT 8090 - Dev Interactve Lrng Envirnmt I (3) Students use instructional design principles and models to develop interactive learning environments. Students learn current development tools to create effective, efficient and appealing learning environments. Beginning and advanced students work together. Covers beginning content when taken first. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours for advanced content. PREREQUISITE: IDT 7060-8060 and 7070-8070, and 7080-8080 or permission of instructor. IDT 8091 - Directed Readings IDT (1-3) Individually directed readings which culminate in the synthesis of a student's ideas. May be repeated with change in topic for 9 credits. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. IDT 8092 - Research IDT (1-6) The student engages in collaborative research with faculty. Activities include planning, design, management, analysis, and reporting of research. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITES: Minimum of 12 credit hours in IDT and permission of instructor. IDT 8095 - Dev Intractve Lrng Envirnmt II (3) Teams of students use instructional design principles to design and develop an instructional system, emphasizing advanced development skills with current technologies. Students contract with real clients, define project goals and timelines, manage instructional design projects, and document the instructional design process. PREREQUISITE: IDT 7090-8090 or permission of instructor. IDT 8100 - Scholarly Practice in IDT (3) Students will prepare to be scholars in the field, including learning to evaluate and eventually produce rigorous research, and preparing for their scholarly project and dissertation research. Students will become oriented to the scholarly nature and dimensions of IDT, particularly related to higher education and research settings. IDT 8230 - Instructional Text Design (3) Introduction to application and techniques of producing and processing instructional text and images. PREREQUISITES: IDT 7070-8070 or permission of instructor. IDT 8500 - Evaltn/Synthesis IDT Research (3) Students will critique academic research findings and synthesize research findings into an original, coherent and structured document. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7521 or equivalent. IDT 8600 - Seminar in IDT Research (1-3) Contemporary research trends and issues in the field of instructional design and technology. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. IDT 8810 - Practicm Instr Design/Technlgy (3-9) Planned, supervised experience in an instructional setting appropriate to student's specialization area of instructional design and technology. The student will have the opportunity to synthesize knowledge and skills and demonstrate professional competencies in educational or training settings. PREREQUISITES: IDT 7070-8070 and 3 additional hours of IDT graduate coursework. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. READING (RDNG) RDNG 7000 - Literacy/English Lang Learners (3) Research based literacy teaching and assessment strategies/methods for the English language learner, including theories. RDNG 7304 - Writing Theory and Practice (3) This online course is designed to present an advanced study of writing techniques in the primary and secondary classroom. RDNG 7540 - Lit Inst in the Elem Schl (3) Foundations, issues, processes, and strategies relative to changes occurring with teaching of literacy; focus on linking theory to practice. Restricted to MS and EdD students. RDNG 7541 - Lit Assess and Intervtn (3) Principles of assessment, evaluation, and prognosis in literacy; formal and informal procedures and instruments used in assessing literacy and related cognitive abilities; multiple causation approach to literacy difficulties. PREREQUISITES: Teaching experience and RDNG 7540, or permission of the instructor. RDNG 7542 - Alt Proced Reading Prob (3) Application of differentiated instruction within a clinical setting to meet the needs of the struggling literacy learner. PREREQUISITES: RDNG 7540 and 7541 or permission of instructor. RDNG 7543 - Adv Lit Instr/Sp Lrnr (3) Etiology of literacy disabilities unique to various types of handicapped children; planning and treatment selection related to gifted and talented, learning disabled, physically handicapped, and other categories of special learner. RDNG 7544 - Adolscnt Lit Instruc (3) Research based theories and steps necessary for academic disciplines: techniques for improving vocabulary, cognition, study skills, and reading rate. RDNG 7545 - Tchg Lit Subject Areas (2-3) Methods, materials, and organizational patterns by which literacy skills are developed and improved through integration with teaching strategies in subject areas. Additional field hours required. Prerequisite: TEP admission RDNG 7546 - Computr Appl/Lit Instr (3) Incorporating computers in the reading classroom and curriculum development of educationally relevant literacy programs. PREREQUISITE: ICL 7060-8060 or permission of instructor. RDNG 7547 - Literacy Clinic (3-6) Emphasis on practical experiences of clinical diagnosis and treatment. PREREQUISITES: ICL 7540-8540 or permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. RDNG 7548 - Adv Sem Reading Resrch (3-6) Survey and analysis of reading research to create background information for study of selected topics in reading; translating research into practical applications in classroom and school. May be repeated for up to 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7521, 7523, 7541, or permission of instructor. RDNG 7549 - Foundtns Lang/Lit Dev (2) Instructional techniques, curriculum, and materials for teaching literacy. Additional field hours required. PREREQUISITES: Admission to TEP. Restricted to licensure-only or MAT secondary students. RDNG 7550 - Sem in Analyzing Lit Res (3) This online course is designed to develop students' ability to survey, summarize, and analyze literacy research and translate research into practical applications in classrooms and schools. RDNG 7553 - Literacy Dev K-4 (3) Teaching and assessing literacy development in grades K-4 with focus on major theories and current research. Additional field hours required. Restricted to students seeking licensure. Prerequisite: TEP admission RDNG 7554 - Literacy Dev 5-8 (3) Furthering literacy development in grades 5-8 with emphasis on teaching and assessment grounded in current research and theory. Additional field hours required. Restricted to students seeking licensure. Prerequisite: TEP admission RDNG 7560 - Literacy Leader and Coach (3) Develops knowledge, skills and dispositions necessary for successful literacy coaching. RDNG 7561 - Literacy Coach Practicum (3) Application of knowledge about literacy coaching in a practical classroom setting. RDNG 7809 - Literacy Research Practicum (3) Participation is required in a supervised literacy research practicum; the experience includes either a clinical or field-based component. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. RDNG 8000 - Literacy/English Lang Learners (3) Research based literacy teaching and assessment strategies/methods for the English language learner, including theories. RDNG 8155 - Hist Literacy Instruction (3) This course considers the history of literacy from three perspectives: 1) as a cognitive, social and cultural activity, 2) the teaching of literacy, and 3) the study of literacy from the advent of the written work to the present. Restricted to candidates admitted to doctoral program. RDNG 8304 - Writing Theory and Practice (3) This online course is designed to present an advanced study of writing techniques in the primary and secondary classroom. RDNG 8540 - Lit Inst in the Elem Schl (3) Foundations, issues, processes, and strategies relative to changes occurring with teaching of literacy; focus on linking theory to practice. Restricted to MS and EdD students. RDNG 8541 - Lit Assess and Intervtn (3) Principles of assessment, evaluation, and prognosis in literacy; formal and informal procedures and instruments used in assessing literacy and related cognitive abilities; multiple causation approach to literacy difficulties. PREREQUISITES: Teaching experience and RDNG 7540, or permission of the instructor. RDNG 8542 - Alt Proced Reading Prob (3) Application of differentiated instruction within a clinical setting to meet the needs of the struggling literacy learner. PREREQUISITES: RDNG 7540 and 7541 or permission of instructor. RDNG 8543 - Adv Lit Instr/Sp Lrnr (3) Etiology of literacy disabilities unique to various types of handicapped children; planning and treatment selection related to gifted and talented, learning disabled, physically handicapped, and other categories of special learner. RDNG 8544 - Adolscnt Lit Instruc (3) Research based theories and steps necessary for academic disciplines: techniques for improving vocabulary, cognition, study skills, and reading rate. RDNG 8546 - Computr Appl/Lit Instr (3) Incorporating computers in the literacy classroom and curriculum development of educationally relevant literacy programs. PREREQUISITE: ICL 7060-8060 or permission of instructor. RDNG 8547 - Literacy Clinic (3-6) Emphasis on practical experiences of clinical diagnosis and treatment. PREREQUISITES: ICL 7540-8540 or permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. RDNG 8548 - Adv Sem Reading Resrch (3-6) Survey and analysis of reading research to create background information for study of selected topics in reading; translating research into practical applications in classroom and school. May be repeated for up to 6 hours. PREREQUISITE: EDPR 7521, 7523, 7541, or permission of instructor. RDNG 8549 - Theoretical Models Read (3) Explores extant theoretical models of the reading process; appropriate for advanced graduate students interested in reading/literacy education, special education, educational psychology, early childhood, and elementary education. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. RDNG 8550 - Sem in Analyzing Lit Res (3) This online course is designed to develop students' ability to survey, summarize, and analyze literacy research and translate research into practical applications in classrooms and schools. RDNG 8551 - Directed Readings Lit (1-3) Individually directed readings culminating in synthesis of ideas. May be repeated with change in topic for 9 credits. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. RDNG 8552 - Research In Literacy (1-6) Collaborative research with faculty, including planning, design, management, analysis, and reporting of research. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITES: Minimum of 12 hours in concentration and permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. RDNG 8560 - Literacy Leader and Coach (3) Develops knowledge, skills and dispositions necessary for successful literacy coaching. RDNG 8561 - Literacy Coach Practicum (3) Application of knowledge about literacy coaching in a practical classroom setting. RDNG 8580 - Comp:Theory/Practice (3) Provides in-depth knowledge of theory, research and pedagogy as related to the field of composition in K-12 education. Restricted to candidates admitted to doctoral program. RDNG 8585 - Issues in Urban Literacy (3) Provides in-depth knowledge of scientific research on the development of literacy skills in urban and high-poverty settings. Restricted to candidates admitted to doctoral program. RDNG 8590 - Thry/Prac Fam Lit Home Sch (3) This course will have two foci: family literacy as a descriptor of practices which occur between family members and as programs aimed at increasing children's academic success through parental involvement and education. Restricted to candidates admitted to doctoral program. RDNG 8809 - Literacy Research Practicum (3) Participation is required in a supervised literacy research practicum; the experience includes either a clinical or field-based component. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. RDNG 8854 - Lang Inqry Lit Res/Tchg (3) A review and analysis of linguistic approaches to studies of language structures and functions in literacy classrooms, including discourse analyses, inquiry based instructional methods, and descriptions of literary genres. Restricted to candidates admitted to doctoral program. SPECIAL EDUCATION (SPED) In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: SPED 7060-69-8060-69. Special Topics in Special Education. (1-3). Current topics in special education. May be repeated with a change in topic. See online class listings for topics. SPED 6000 - Meth/Mat Modrt/Sevr Dis (3) Curriculum, methods, and materials applicable to special educational needs of moderately/severly disabled learners, emphasizing educational and vocational skills that facilitate normalization and independent living. PREREQUISITES: SPED 3501 or SPED 6601; COREQUISITES: SPED 4001 or 7042. SPED 6513 - Asst Tech/Trans Instruc (3) Transition issues, life skills, and vocational training to prepare students with significant exceptionalities for community living; focuses on legal and family concerns and effective transition programming; includes familiarity with available community resources and interagency collaboration; emphasizes assistive technology and augmentative/alternative communication as major tools for community integration. SPED 6601 - Student Phys/Health Dis (3) Emphasizes physical and educational modifications to facilitate learning and vocational skills; examines accessibility, movement patterns, prosthetic and augmentative communication devices, and supportive medical procedures. Includes practicum with students with physical/health impairments. SPED 6900 - Consultn Schl/Fmly/Cmty (3) Current professional development issues that impact on educator interaction with students, parents, and other professionals including the development of communication and consultation skills. SPED 7000 - Intro Excptional Learnr (3) Study of the relevant research dealing with the physical, mental, emotional, and social traits of all types of individuals who are exceptional; consideration of major current problems and practices in the development of various programs. Field Experience: Required. NOTE: Not required if equivalent course taken at the undergraduate level. Substitutions must be approved by advisor. SPED 7001 - Test Meas Excp Chl/Adul (3) Overview of psychoeducational assessment practices and issues with emphasis on educational and psychological tests used in special education; focus on informed interpretation of test data and implications for instructional practice. Field experience: Required. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000. SPED 7002 - Indep Stdy Spec Educ (1-6) Opportunity for self-directed, independent study in special education. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F will be given. SPED 7010 - Ethical Issues in ABA (3) This course will provide an overview of ethical and legal issues faced by the behavior analyst. This course covers the Behavior Analyst Certification Board's guidelines for responsible and professional conduct, ethical issues related to the application of Applied Behavior Analysis in Special Education, and other ethical and legal considerations. SPED 7025 - Microcomputers In Sped (3) Emphasis on matching software programs with the unique learning needs of students with disabilities; adaptive interfacing techniques for students who have physical and/or sensory disabilities also addressed. SPED 7042 - Fld Exp/Comprehen Sped (3-6) Supervised experience(s) with individuals with moderate to severe disabilities in cooperation with university, local, state, and/or national education personnel. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. SPED 7050 - Teach Exceptnl Learner (2-3) Overview of special education including characteristics and education of students with various exceptionalities; emphasis on developing skills for effective teaching of exceptional student in regular classroom. SPED 7101 - Foundations E Chld Sped (3) Overview of early childhood special education including current issues, laws, and practices that influence programs serving children with disabilities birth through age eight; emphasis on research dealing with physical, mental, emotional, and social characteristics of young children with various exceptionalities. Clinical/Field Experience Required. SPED 7121 - Ed Prog Presc Ed/Disbl (3) Methods involved in developmental assessment and educational planning for children with disabilities in pre-school years. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 OR 7101-8101. SPED 7141 - Field Exper Early Child (3-6) Observation and supervised experience in early childhood special education settings. PREREQUISITES: ECED 6540 and SPED 7121-8121. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. SPED 7201 - Char/Indvl W/Mild Disab (3) Examination of etiological, psychological, social, and physical conditions related to the educational performance of individuals with disabilities in developmental life periods. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 or equivalent. SPED 7203 - Char/Indvl Emot Disturb (3) Characteristics of persons with emotional and behavioral disorders; emphasis on social, psychological, and biological theories of causality, assessment, and education with a variety of emotional and/or behavioral problems. SPED 7205 - Prin/Thry Inclusive Education (3) This course will explore the foundations of inclusive education. Research, policy, and professional standards which are the basis of inclusive practices will be discussed. In addition, the examination of social issues that support the evolution of the inclusive movement in educational environments will occur. SPED 7206 - Special Education Law (3) The essential elements of applicable laws will be presented. Emphasis will be placed on the influence of case law on the practice of teaching inclusive environments. Implementation of best practices in inclusive settings and evaluation as it relates to the incorporation of research in past and present special education law is the focus of this course. SPED 7207 - Ldrshp/Facil Inclusion/Edu Set (3) This course promotes the development of inclusion facilitators, professional development design and leaders. Presentation and design of the flexible schedules and grouping will occur. Emphasis will be placed on the identification of teaching partners and facilitating the cooperative educator process. Handling sensitive issues, setting up venues, and designing materials will be presented. SPED 7211 - Academic Instruct Sped (3) Academic methods, remediation, and educational planning for individuals with disabilities. Field Experience Required. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 or equivalent. SPED 7212 - Content Methods in Special Edu (3) Study of best practices and methods for mathematics, social studies and science instruction presently being used in special education and inclusive settings. Also curriculum for transition and daily living skills. The use of assistive technology for education is included. Field Experience Required. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 or equivalent. SPED 7221 - Behavior Mgmt Spec Ed (3) Methods of changing behaviors of individuals with mild to severe disabilities in various educational settings. Field Experience Required. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 or equivalent. SPED 7222 - Meth Tech Tchg Eml Dstb (3) Procedures for educating individuals with emotional disturbance; emphasis on teaching behaviors, psycho-educational management of behavior, and effective teaching techniques. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. SPED 7224 - Tchng Childrn Deaf/Hh (3) Overview of teaching for children who are deaf or hard of hearing; addresses philosophical and historical perspectives, methodologies, assessment, and intervention; discusses curriculum planning, hearing-aid technology, cochlear implants, and career development. SPED 7225 - Tchng Spch/Lang Deaf/Hh (3) Focuses on the acquisition of basic speech/language skills in the development of effective communication in children with hearing impairments. SPED 7226 - Manual Communication (3) Develops beginning competencies in manual communication modes, both fingerspelling and signing, emphasizing accurate, clear fingerspelling and the ability to read fingerspelling presented slowly; also introduces basic signs in American Sign Language (ASL). Practice will be provided. SPED 7227 - Tchng Read Chld Deaf/Hh (3) Modern trends, lesson planning, teaching strategies, and assessment tools in reading instruction for children with hearing impairment. SPED 7241 - Superv Practicm In Sped (3-9) Enhanced student teaching in settings with individuals who have disabilities. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. SPED 7401 - Psyc Soc Aspct Lrn Dsab (3) Psychological, social, and educational characteristics of individuals with learning disabilities; theories and philosophies regarding the treatment, etiology, and management considerations stressed. SPED 7411 - Meth Teach Learng Disab (3) Remedial approaches for children with learning disabilities; emphasis on developmental sequence and educational practices. SPED 7511 - Mental Retardation (3) Emphasis on diagnostic and pedagogical techniques used with children who have mental retardation at the pre-academic level. PREREQUISITES: SPED 7000, 7501, or their equivalents. SPED 7513 - Scndry Schl Transition (3) Emphasizes transition issues, life skills, and vocational education to prepare students with exceptionalities for life after secondary school; also focuses on legal issues, family concerns, and effective transition programming. Familiarity with available community resources and the importance of interagency collaboration stressed. SPED 7514 - Intro/Appl Behav Anlys (3) Overview of the principles, processes, concepts, and ethics of behaviorism and behavior analysis. SPED 7516 - Adv Prin/Conc Appl Behv (3) In-depth examination of the philosophy, processes, concepts, and the principles of behaviorism and applied behavior analysis. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7514-8514. SPED 7517 - Func Anlys/Treat Prob Behv (3) Examines principles, issues, approaches, and strategies for conducting Functional Behavior Assessment and Functional analysis. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7514/8514. SPED 7518 - Evidence-Based Prac in ABA (3) Study of instructional strategies developed from applied behavior analysis, including Direct Instruction, Precision Teaching, Discrete Trial Training, and others. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7514-8514. SPED 7519 - Prac/Appld Behav Anlys (3-12) Supervised experience in the application of behavior analytic strategies in education settings; requires 20 hrs per week (10 direct hrs and 10 indirect hrs) for 1000 hrs total. Must be repeated for a minimum of 12 hours credit (4 semesters). On campus seminars addressing special topics are required and count as group supervision according to the BACB. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7/8010, SPED 7/8514, SPED 7/8517, SPED 7/8518 with a grade of 3.0 or higher and permission of instructor. SPED 7520 - Behaviorism Seminar (3) Provides an overview of the application of behavior analytic principles to common behavior problems exhibited by children both with and without disabilities. PREREQUISITES: SPED 7514/8514. SPED 7521 - Facil General/Maint of Lrng (3) An overview of the principles, strategies, and tactics that promote generalized outcomes of learning across people, time, settings, and behaviors. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7514-8514. SPED 7522 - Tiered Interventions (3) An advanced study of the science of implementing and assessing tiered interventions for early intervening and identifying students with learning disabilities. PREREQUISITES: SPED 7514-8514 and SPED 7211-8211 or permission of instructor. SPED 7523 - SPED Research/Dissem (3) This course helps students acquire and develop skills for professional writing and publication. Gives guidance in conducting literature reviews and evaluating research practices appropriate for students with disabilities and/or special education settings. Procedures for preparing and submitting manuscripts to professional journals will be covered. SPED 7600 - Intro to Aut Spec Dis (3) This course will provide an overview of autism spectrum disorders from the diagnosis and early intervention phase to working with families, therapists, and staff in both educational and community settings. The course will be grounded in research-based theory and will assist with the learner with evidence-based decision making from a practical standpoint. Legal and ethical issues will be discussed related to diagnosis, treatment selections, and working effectively with families. SPED 7601 - ASD: Class Mgmt and Design (3) This course will introduce common behavior management strategies shown to be effective for children with autism. These strategies will focus on both individual and group contingencies. Further, this course will discuss functional behavior assessment interpretation and treatment design, as well as data collection methods. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7600 (Introduction to Autism Spectrum Disorders - concurrent enrollment allowed). SPED 7602 - ASD: Instruct Methods I (3) This course will introduce evidence based methods of instruction specific to teaching academic and social skills to children with autism. Additionally, this course will focus on distinguishing between evidence-based and unsupported but common strategies in treatment of autism. Common unsupported strategies will be discussed. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7600 (Introduction to Autism Spectrum Disorders), SPED 7601 (Classroom Design and Data Collection). SPED 7603 - ASD: Instruct Methods II (3) This course will introduce methods of instruction specific to facilitating communication for students with autism. Additionally, this course will focus on assistive technologies related to the academic instruction, communication (AAC) and behavior modification of students with autism. Course content will emphasis data driven instructional practice, manual and technology-based data acquisition practices, data presentation and using data to drive instructional practice. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7600 (Intro to Autism Spectrum Disorders), SPED 7601 (Classroom Design and Data Collection), SPED 7602 (ASD: Methods I - concurrent enrollment allowed). SPED 7900 - Advanced Practicum/Capstone (3) Designed as a culminating experience exposing students to the application of behavior analytic strategies and tactics in a variety of settings. Direct participation is required for the successful completion of a field-study, on-site project or other classroom based experience. This course must be taken during the last semester of coursework. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. SPED 8001 - Test Meas Excp Chl/Adul (3) Overview of psychoeducational assessment practices and issues with emphasis on educational and psychological tests used in special education; focus on informed interpretation of test data and implications for instructional practice. Field Experience Required. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000. SPED 8002 - Indep Stdy Spec Educ (1-6) Opportunity for self-directed, independent study in special education. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F will be given. SPED 8010 - Ethical Issues in ABA (3) This course will provide an overview of ethical and legal issues faced by the behavior analyst. This course covers the Behavior Analyst Certification Board's guidelines for responsible and professional conduct, ethical issues related to the application of Applied Behavior Analysis in Special Education, and other ethical and legal considerations. SPED 8041 - Fld Exp/Modified Sped (3-6) Supervised experience(s) with individuals with mild disabilities in cooperation with university, local, state, and/or national educational personnel. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. SPED 8042 - Fld Exp/Comprehen Sped (3-6) Supervised experience(s) with individuals with moderate to severe disabilities in cooperation with university, local, state, and/or national education personnel. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. SPED 8101 - Foundations E Chld Sped (3) Overview of early childhood special education including current issues, laws, and practices that influence programs serving children with disabilities birth through age eight; emphasis on research dealing with physical, mental, emotional, and social characteristics of young children with various exceptionalities. Clinical/Field Experience Required. SPED 8121 - Ed Prog Presc Ed/Disbl (3) Methods involved in developmental assessment and educational planning for children with disabilities in pre-school years. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 OR 7101-8101. SPED 8141 - Field Exper Early Child (3-6) Observation and supervised experience in early childhood special education settings. PREREQUISITES: ECED 6540 and SPED 7121-8121. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. SPED 8201 - Char/Indvl W/Mild Disab (3) Examination of etiological, psychological, social, and physical conditions related to the educational performance of individuals with disabilities in developmental life periods. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 or equivalent. SPED 8203 - Char/Indvl Emot Disturb (3) Characteristics of persons with emotional and behavioral disorders; emphasis on social, psychological, and biological theories of causality, assessment, and education with a variety of emotional and/or behavioral problems. SPED 8205 - Prin/Thry Inclusive Education (3) This course will explore the foundations of inclusive education. Research, policy, and professional standards which are the basis of inclusive practices will be discussed. In addition, the examination of social issues that support the evolution of the inclusive movement in educational environments will occur. SPED 8206 - Special Education Law (3) The essential elements of applicable laws will be presented. Emphasis will be placed on the influence of case law on the practice of teaching inclusive environments. Implementation of best practices in inclusive settings and evaluation as it relates to the incorporation of research in past and present special education law is the focus of this course. SPED 8207 - Ldrshp/Facil Inclusion/Edu Set (3) This course promotes the development of inclusion facilitators, professional development design and leaders. Presentation and design of the flexible schedules and grouping will occur. Emphasis will be placed on the identification of teaching partners and facilitating the cooperative educator process. Handling sensitive issues, setting up venues, and designing materials will be presented. SPED 8211 - Academic Instruct Sped (3) Academic methods, remediation, and educational planning for individuals with disabilities. Field Experience Required. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 or equivalent. SPED 8212 - Content Methods in Special Edu (3) Study of best practices and methods for mathematics, social studies and science instruction presently being used in special education and inclusive settings. Also curriculum for transition and daily living skills. The use of assistive technology for education is included. Field Experience Required. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 or equivalent. SPED 8221 - Behavior Mgmt Spec Ed (3) Methods of changing behaviors of individuals with mild to severe disabilities in various educational settings. Field Experience Required. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7000 or equivalent. SPED 8222 - Meth Tech Tchg Eml Dstb (3) Procedures for educating individuals with emotional disturbance; emphasis on teaching behaviors, psycho-educational management of behavior, and effective teaching techniques. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. SPED 8401 - Psyc Soc Aspct Lrn Dsab (3) Psychological, social, and educational characteristics of individuals with learning disabilities; theories and philosophies regarding the treatment, etiology, and management considerations stressed. SPED 8411 - Meth Teach Learng Disab (3) Remedial approaches for children with learning disabilities; emphasis on developmental sequence and educational practices. SPED 8511 - Mental Retardation (3) Emphasis on diagnostic and pedagogical techniques used with children who have mental retardation at the pre-academic level. PREREQUISITES: SPED 7000, 7501, or their equivalents. SPED 8513 - Scndry Schl Transition (3) Emphasizes transition issues, life skills, and vocational education to prepare students with exceptionalities for life after secondary school; also focuses on legal issues, family concerns, and effective transition programming. Familiarity with available community resources and the importance of interagency collaboration stressed. SPED 8514 - Intro/Appl Behav Anlys (3) Overview of the principles, processes, concepts, and ethics of behaviorism and behavior analysis. SPED 8516 - Adv Prin/Conc Appl Behv (3) In-depth examination of the philosophy, processes, concepts, and the principles of behaviorism and applied behavior analysis. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7514-8514. SPED 8517 - Func Anlys/Treat Prob Behv (3) Examines principles, issues, approaches, and strategies for conducting Functional Behavior Assessment and Functional analysis. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7514/8514. SPED 8518 - Evidence-Based Prac in ABA (3) Study of instructional strategies developed from applied behavior analysis, including Direct Instruction, Precision Teaching, Discrete Trial Training, and others. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7514-8514. SPED 8519 - Prac/Appld Behav Anlys (3-12) Supervised experience in the application of behavior analytic strategies in education settings; requires 20 hrs per week (10 direct hrs and 10 indirect hrs) for 1000 hrs total. Must be repeated for a minimum of 12 hours credit (4 semesters). On campus seminars addressing special topics are required and count as group supervision according to the BACB. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7/8010 SPED 7/8514, SPED 7/8517, SPED 7/8518 with a grade of 3.0 or higher and permission of instructor. SPED 8520 - Behaviorism Seminar (3) Provides an overview of the application of behavior analytic principles to common behavior problems exhibited by children both with and without disabilities. PREREQUISITES: SPED 7514/8514. SPED 8521 - Facil General/Maint of Lrng (3) An overview of the principles, strategies, and tactics that promote generalized outcomes of learning across people, time, settings, and behaviors. PREREQUISITE: SPED 7514-8514. SPED 8522 - Tiered Interventions (3) An advanced study of the science of implementing and assessing tiered interventions for early intervening and identifying students with learning disabilities. PREREQUISITES: SPED 7514-8514 and SPED 7211-8211 or permission of instructor. SPED 8523 - SPED Research/Dissem (3) This course helps students acquire and develop skills for professional writing and publication. Gives guidance in conducting literature reviews and evaluating research practices appropriate for students with disabilities and/or special education settings. Procedures for preparing and submitting manuscripts to professional journals will be covered. SPED 8524 - Adv Seminar In SPED Res (3-6) Survey and analysis of reading research to create background information for study of selected topics in special education; translating research into practical applications in special education program settings. PREREQUISITES: EDPR 7521or 7523, 8541, 8561, or permission of instructor. Grades of A-F will be given. SPED 8622 - Readings In SPED (1-3) Individually directed readings culminating in synthesis of ideas. May be repeated with change of topic for 9 hours. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. SPED 8623 - Supervised Research SPED (1-6) Collaborative research with faculty, including planning, design, management, analysis, and reporting of research. May be repeated for a maximum of 12 credit hours. PREREQUISITES: Minimum of 12 hours in concentration and permission of instructor. SPED 8900 - Advanced Practicum/Capstone (3) Designed as a culminating experience exposing students to the application of behavior analytic strategies and tactics in a variety of settings. Direct participation is required for the successful completion of a field-study, on-site project or other classroom based experience. This course must be taken during the last semester of coursework. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. ADVANCED STUDY IN TEACHING AND LEARNING (ASTL) These courses are restricted to students enrolled in the Regents Online Master of Education Degree Program and will not be used to fulfill requirements for other graduate degrees. Department permit is required. ASTL 7700 - Portfolio Development (3) (5700). Portfolio as authentic assessment tool documenting scholarship of teaching; use of artifacts/products/teacher work samples/ student work samples as evidence of effective teaching; instructional examples organized into planning and teaching, actual teaching, assessment and evaluation, learning environment, professional growth, and communication following National Board for Professional Teaching Standards requirements. ASTL 7701 - Teacher As Learner (3) (5701). Improves knowledge and practice through professional reading, writing, dialogue, inquiry, and reflection; uses hardware and software to create effective literacy learning experiences; learn how to find, access, and assess materials from a variety of sources and to design and develop multi and hypermedia learning environments that promote active learning. ASTL 7703 - Knowledge Of Learner (3) (5703). Human development from conception through adolescence applied to school settings; aspects of human development impacted by human interaction and nurturing and those unaffected by environmental input; includes gross and fine motor development, temperament, visual and auditory perception, family characteristics, genetic inheritance, attention, cognitive tempo, play, and language development. ASTL 7705 - Assessment Of Learning (3) (5705). Introduction to learner-centered systematic assessment at the classroom level; overview of models for planning and implementing classroom assessment projects with emphasis on implementation, data collection, analysis, and reporting of results; overview of tools, techniques, and issues considered to design and use assessments focused on learner needs. ASTL 7706 - Learning Instruction Strategy (3) (5706). Analysis of theoretical and research support for selected models of instruction; emphasis on teaching applications. ASTL 7709 - Action Research (3) Empowers classroom teachers to construct their own knowledge and to make it available to others for the benefit of all learners; helps educators and other professionals understand the relationship between their own professional development and the process of improving the quality of pupils' and/or colleagues' learning. ASTL 7721 - Thry/Foundtn Dev Litrcy (3) (5721). Explores nature of learning, of language, of the reading process, of the writing process, how children learn language, receptive vs. productive language, relationships among learning one's "mother tongue" and learning to read and write, and implications for classroom instruction and assessment; includes applications of technology and diversity issues. ASTL 7723 - Teaching Begin Literacy (3) (5723). Exploration of theory and best practices for family literacy from birth to school age, from preschool to kindergarten, followed by explorations of best practices for teaching reading and writing in the primary grades. Candidates will work with primary grade children to understand and implement best practices. ASTL 7725 - Literacy Growth/Mid Grd (3) (5725). Engage candidates in reading and discussions of theory, understanding best practices, and implementing best practices in literacy instruction grades 4-8; instructional strategies will focus on understanding reading and writing as tools for learning in all content areas. ASTL 7726 - Literacy Problems/K-8 (3) (5726). Engages candidates in reading, discussions, and implementation of diagnostic tools and techniques in literacy for struggling students grades K-8. ASTL 7729 - Rem/Literacy Problm K-8 (3) (5726). Engages candidates in reading, discussions, and implementation of instructional strategies based on the data derived from the diagnostic tools employed with students in Literacy IV. These students will be struggling readers in grades K-8. Issues related to improving student writing will also be presented and explored. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .