#http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/people/profiles/hancock.php
Stephen Hancock - Theatre &amp; Dance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Theatre &amp; Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Home Theatre &amp; Dance People Stephen Hancock Stephen Hancock Associate Professor, Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Phone (901) 678-2570 Email shancock@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-1350 Office 3745 Central Ave., Theatre Building, Room 143 Office Hours MW 8:00-9:00 and 3:45-4:45 or by appointment About Stephen Hancock Professor Hancock joined the faculty in 1998 and was promoted and tenured as an Associate Professor in 2004. He is a member of the BFA Performance faculty where he teaches classes in acting, directing and playwriting. His teaching / advising honors include: The Thomas W. Briggs Foundation – Excellence in Teaching Award for excellence in undergraduate teaching (2004); the Kennedy Center American College Theatre Festival "Outstanding Teaching Artist (Region IV) in Playwriting." (2007); and the College of Communication and Fine Arts Dean's Faculty Advising Award for 2002-2003. As a playwright his work includes 4:00 A.M.: Redmond and Meda, The Writer's Block, The Horror of the Little Family Farce, Revelations, The Lioness of the Leopards , and Zyrardów . His plays have been performed or had readings in NYC; New Orleans; Minneapolis; Jackson, MS; Valdez, AK and Torrington, CT. He was runner-up in the 2005 KCACTF Cohen Prize; is a two-time second-place winner of The Writer's Digest Magazine Writing Competition; and has twice been a semi-finalist in the Humana Festival 10-Minute Play Festival. The Horror of the Little Family Farce was invited to participate in the 2010 KCACTF, Region IV conference. He is a past participant in The Sewanee Writers' Conference and The Edward Albee Last Frontier Theatre Conference. He has directed over 50 plays including One Man, Two Guvnors, Time Stands Still, Clybourne Park, Titus Andronicus, Edwin Drood, I Am My Own Wife, Company, Chess, A Winter's Tale and The Comedy of Errors . He has been nominated for Best Director 10 times in the Memphis Theater Awards and won 4 times. In 2010 he received a Meritorious Achievement Award for Excellence in Directing by the KCACTF for his production of The Comedy of Errors. In 2008, he was awarded the Alumni Association Award for Distinguished Achievement in the Creative Arts. He is a member of the Dramatists Guild, AEA and AFTRA. Education MFA Theatre (Emphasis in Directing) The Pennsylvania State University 1984 BA Theatre The University of Louisville 1978 Experience Professional University Professor (over 20 years); Theatre Director (over 30 years); Playwright (over 20 years); Professional Stage Management (3 years including Circle Rep and Theatreworks USA) / Non-professional (7 years); Marketing / PR both professional and Not-for-Profit (4 years including Manhattan Theatre Club and ART/NY); Casting (1 year); Theatre Board – Center Ring Company (1 year) and Theatreworks (2 years); Play reader (Manhattan Theatre Club, SETC, KCACTF and for local theatres. Honors and Awards 2014 Best Musical Production (Chess) The "Ostranders" Memphis Theatre Awards awarded by Memphis Magazine 2013 Best Director / Best Dramatic Production (Becky Shaw) The "Ostranders" Memphis Theatre Awards awarded by Memphis Magazine 2010 Kennedy Center American College Theatre Festival, Region IV – Meritorious Achievement Award for Excellence in Directing (Comedy of Errors) 2010 Kennedy Center American College Theatre Festival, Region IV – The Horror of the Little Family Farce one of four plays selected to participate in the Region IV conference. 2008 Best Director / Best Musical Production (Edwin Drood) The "Ostranders" Memphis Theatre Awards awarded by Memphis Magazine 2008 Alumni Association Award for Distinguished Achievement in the Creative Arts. (Plaque / $2,000) 2007 Kennedy Center American College Theatre Festival – "Outstanding Teaching Artist (Playwriting)" Region IV 2007 Best Director / Best Dramatic Production (The Pillowman) The "Ostranders" Memphis Theatre Awards awarded by Memphis Magazine 2007 Best Director nomination (Noises Off) The "Ostranders" Memphis Theatre Awards awarded by Memphis Magazine 2007 Best Director nomination (I Am My Own Wife) The "Ostranders" Memphis Theatre Awards awarded by Memphis Magazine 2005 Best Director nomination (Stones in His Pockets) The "Ostranders" Memphis Theatre Awards awarded by Memphis Magazine 2005 David Mark Cohen Prize (2nd Place) – Awarded by the Kennedy Center American College Theatre Festival (KCACTF) for The Writer's Block. 2004 Thomas W. Briggs Foundation – Excellence in Teaching Award – Awarded by The University of Memphis Association in conjunction with the Thomas W. Briggs Foundation for excellence in undergraduate teaching. (Plaque / $5,000) 2003 Best Director nomination (Three Days of Rain) The "Ostranders" Memphis Theatre Awards awarded by Memphis Magazine 2003 Best Musical Production (Into the Woods) The "Ostranders" Memphis Theatre Awards awarded by Memphis Magazine 2003 Awarded the College of Communication and Fine Arts Dean's Faculty Advising Award for 2002-2003 2002 Outstanding Publication Certificate of Merit – Awarded by the National Academic Advising Association for The Department of Theatre and Dance's Undergraduate Policy Manual. (I serve as Chair of the Committee and Chief Editor.) 2001 Best Director / Best Dramatic Production (Sight Unseen) The "Ostranders" Memphis Theatre Awards awarded by Memphis Magazine 2000 Top 20 Finalist – Writing Competition – Awarded by Writers Digest Magazine for the play Revelations out of 407 entries. 2000 Finalist – PWSCC Edward Albee Theatre Conference for the play The Writer's Block. 2000 Finalist – New Play Festival – The Chameleon Theatre for the play The Writer's Block. 1999 Second Place – Writing Competition – Awarded by Writers Digest Magazine for the play The Horror of the Little Family Farce. 1998 Second Place – Writing Competition – Awarded by Writers Digest Magazine for the play The Writer's Block. 1991 Semi-Finalist – National 10-Minute Play Contest – Awarded by Actors Theatre of Louisville for the play Did I Happen to Mention? 1991 Semi-Finalist – National 10-Minute Play Contest – Awarded by Actors Theatre of Louisville for the play Something. 1990 Best Dramatic Production (Lydie Breeze) The "Ostranders" Memphis Theatre Awards awarded by Memphis Magazine 1989 10 Best Plays in Memphis – Awarded by The Memphis Business Journal for Fiddler on the Roof by Stein/Bock/Harnick. Research and Scholarly Activities Research Interests Teaching interests: Directing, Playwriting, Developing New Works Publications Creative Research Playwriting: No Reason (2015 staged reading), 4:00 AM: Redmond &amp; Meda (2014 produced), Zyardów (2013 staged reading), Robert (2013 staged reading), Revelations (2013 produced), 4:00 AM: Redmond &amp; Meda (2012 staged reading) New Work: No Reason (2015), Conversations in Bed (2015), Antiquorum Botanicus Nomen (2014), Pop (2014), The Krewe of Ganymede (2013) Directing: One Man Two Guvnors (2014), Chess (2014), Becky Shaw (2013), Clybourne Park (2013), Time Stands Still (2013), Tartuffe-the Opera (2011), The Comedy of Errors (2010), The Horror of the Little Family Farce (2009), Edwin Drood (2008) A Lesson Before Dying (2008) Publications "4:00 AM: Redmond &amp; Meda," The Collective: 10 Play Anthology, Volume II (2014) "Search: Play + Writing + Competition," Southern Theatre Magazine, a quarterly magazine published by SETC. (2002) 2015-2016 Season Join us for our 2015-2016 Theatre &amp; Dance Season In the News Cassie Beck (BFA '99) talks about her role in the Roundabout Theatre production of The Humans. Watch Me – Theatre Video Take a closer look at the UofM Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Anthony Pellecchia Meet our new lighting and sound designer Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/14/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .