#http://www.memphis.edu/univcoll/resources/advising.php
Advising - University College - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University College About Undergraduate Graduate Resources Online Home University College Resources Advising Advising Academic advising is a critical component of the undergraduate experience. It is the process of developing a meaningful educational plan that is compatible with the student's abilities, values, interests and career goals. In achieving an academic degree, both the student and the advisor must share in the responsibilities. It is University of Memphis policy that every student be advised before each registration period unless a student qualifies to be cleared for more than one semester by their advisor. Advisor Responsibilities Help students clarify their values, interests and goals as related to their academic program Provide accurate information about educational options, requirements, policies and procedures Assist students with a course plan to satisfy university and college requirements for graduation Refer students to other university resources, as needed Student Responsibilities Know the requirements of your chosen academic program, including all deadlines. Monitor your academic progress by keeping a record of courses that you complete. Read and keep all materials provided by your advisor. Complete all required forms and contracts by the designated deadlines. Retain a copy of all forms and contracts before submitting them to the college. Be aware of deadlines for registration, fee payments, and other important tasks. Activate your University of Memphis email address. For assistance, contact 901.678.8888 or visit iam.memphis.edu . This is the official means to communicate with your advisor. Advising Appointment Preparation Review the course plan provided by your advisor or your approved baccalaureate contract and note which courses you have completed. Review the schedule of courses in your my.memphis account and make a list of courses you plan to take for the upcoming semester. Schedule your advising appointment online by clicking on the "Make Your Appointment Online" icon. Bring a print-out of your UM Degree to each advising appointment and include a list of any questions or concerns. University College Advisors Students Advisor Name Email Last Name: A-E Sara Williams sjwillia@memphis.edu Last Name: F, G, H, S Ernest Hendley rhendley@memphis.edu Last Name: I-O Dorothy Hale dmhale@memphis.edu Last Name: P-R, T-Z Mary Brignole mbrignol@memphis.edu Undergraduate Degrees: Lambuth Campus Cyndi Hill chill9@memphis.edu Undergraduate Degrees: RODP Online Mary Crites mewart@memphis.edu Graduate Degrees: MALS and MPS Dr. Keith Sisson ksisson@memphis.edu Self-Advising Student should carefully review all requirements to qualify for self-advising before submitting a request. Walk-in Advising Walk-in advising sessions are available to students who currently have a declared major in University College and have met with a University College advisor in a previous semester. Walk-in appointments are a maximum of 10 minutes. Students requiring more time, should schedule an appointment via Appointment Plus. Walk-in Advising Sessions DAY DATE TIME Friday October 30th 8:30am - 11:30am Tuesday November 3rd 8:30am - 11:30am and 1:00pm - 3:30pm Monday November 9th 8:30am - 11:30am and 1:00pm - 3:30pm Tuesday November 10th 8:30am - 11:30am and 1:00pm - 3:30pm All sessions are held at the University College. Brister Hall, Room 218 University of Memphis 3669 Alumni Ave Memphis, TN 38111 *Online students may call the main desk at 901-678-2716 on walk-in days to have their name placed on the walk-in phone list and an advisor will call them back the same day. New Student Sessions Students who are new or would like to change their major to University College must sign up for a New Student Session by calling the front desk at 901-678-2716. New Student Sessions DAY DATE TIME Tuesday September 22nd 9:00am Wednesday September 23rd 9:00am Wednesday October 7th 1:30pm Wednesday October 14th 1:30pm Thursday October 22nd 9:00am Request More Information Complete our online form for additional degree information. Online Appointments Academic Advising is available in-person, by phone and web conference. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/11/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .