#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11285
Assistant/Associate Professor Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant/Associate Professor Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC429 Advertised Title Assistant/Associate Professor Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 018662 Category Full-Time Faculty Department Mechanical Engineering Position Summary The Department of Mechanical Engineering at University of Memphis invites applications for a tenure track Assistant/Associate Professor beginning August 2016. A position at the rank of Assoc. Professor will be considered for exceptionally qualified candidates. Duties include teaching undergraduate and graduate courses in mechanical engineering, obtaining externally funded research, supervising graduate students and providing professional service. Candidates at the Assistant Professor rank are expected to demonstrate the potential to develop a visible nationally recognized and externally-funded research program. Required qualifications are a PhD in Engineering or equivalent. While candidates in all areas related to mechanical engineering will be considered, the department is especially interested in candidates in the thermal-fluid sciences with demonstrated expertise in the areas of advanced manufacturing (e.g., additive manufacturing), energy generation, harvesting and storage, renewable energy, nano-technology and thermal management. Candidates are expected to collaborate on multi-disciplinary research. Minimum Position Qualifications Required qualifications are a PhD in Engineering or equivalent. Special Conditions Screening of applications will begin January 15, 2016. Posting Date 10/26/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range Commensurate with Experience Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Instructions to Applicant regarding references Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Teaching Philosophy Other Document 1 References List Optional Documents