#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/cas/biol.php
Biological Sciences - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Biological Sciences Biological Sciences RANDALL BAYER, PhD Chair Room 201, Ellington Hall 901.678.2581 CHARLES LESSMAN, PhD Graduate Coordinator 901.678.2963 grad_studies_coordinator@memphis.edu I. The Department of Biological Sciences offers programs that lead to the Master of Science (MS thesis and non-thesis) and the Doctor of Philosophy degrees. Graduate faculty members in the department have diverse interests covering most of the major fields of biology and taxa of organisms. Details about admission and degree requirements are presented in the sections that follow. Applicants must apply to both The University of Memphis Graduate School ( ) and the Department of Biological Sciences ( /). All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) as well as the program requirements of the degree being pursued. The Department of Biological Sciences prefers that students begin their graduate program in the fall; however, they may be accepted for the spring term. The deadline for receiving all application materials for admission in the fall semester is February 1 and September 15 for admission in the spring semester. Applications received after the deadlines may be considered at the discretion of the departmental Graduate Studies Committee, but priority will be given to applications received by the deadlines. Students wishing to be considered for a Graduate Teaching Assistantship (GTA) should apply by February 1. Generally, assistantships will not be available to students applying for spring admission. Admission to our graduate program is competitive and is not automatic by meeting minimum departmental admission requirements. II. MS Degree Program Program objectives are: (1) understand biological principles, concepts, and theories, and in-depth knowledge in a chosen specialty; (2) develop expertise in experimental design, data analysis, and oral and written presentation of research results; and (3) become competitive for professional positions in the biological sciences. A. Program Admission Application to The University of Memphis Graduate School. Application can be made on-line ( and /). Official transcripts of all previous academic coursework must be sent directly to The University of Memphis Graduate Admissions from the issuing institution. An overall minimum grade point average of 2.75 (on a 4.0 scale) at the undergraduate level is usually competitive. Applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign institution must have their credentials evaluated by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services' website . The course-by-course report is required. a. Applicants must have satisfactorily completed ("C" or better) three upper division courses within the following six areas: Ecology, Genetics, Cell Biology, Microbiology, Physiology, and Evolution. b. Students must have satisfactorily completed ("C" or better) five courses within the following nine areas: General Chemistry I, General Chemistry II, Organic Chemistry I, Organic Chemistry II, Biochemistry, Physics I, Physics II, Calculus, and Statistics. Other courses in the sciences may substitute for these requirements. The Graduate Record Exam (GRE) is required and scores for the Verbal, Quantitative, and Analytical Writing sections are an important factor in the admission process. GRE scores should be submitted directly to The University of Memphis Graduate Admissions by the testing agency. Department of Biological Sciences Graduate Student Application, to be submitted in an online fillable form ( ). A written letter from a prospective advisor within the Department of Biological Sciences that states that he/she will accept the applicant and how the student will be funded while in the program must be submitted to the Department of Biological Sciences. Applicants for the Master's degree are expected to have made prior contact with potential research advisors in the department's graduate program. This is a critical first step; no applicants will be accepted without an advisor. Faculty research interests are listed on the departmental website; applicants are encouraged to interact directly with those faculty members who have research interests that match their own interests. Two letters of recommendation from persons capable of assessing the applicant's suitability for graduate work in biology must be submitted to the Department of Biological Sciences. International students for whom English is not their native language must submit proof that they have taken the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL); acceptable minimums are 550 for paper-based (PBT) and 79 for internet-based (IBT) exams. International applicants for Graduate Teaching Assistantships in the Department of Biological Sciences must obtain a score of 26 or higher on the spoken English component of the TOEFL iBT. Alternatively, applicants must take the SPEAK test (Speaking Proficiency English Assessment Kit) and obtain a score of 50 or higher in order to be appointed as a Teaching Assistant. The SPEAK test is The University of Memphis version of the TSE (Test of Spoken English), which was produced by Educational Testing Service. B. Program Requirements (Thesis) A minimum of 30 semester hours is required beyond the baccalaureate degree, of which 21 must be at the 7000 level. A grade point average of 3.0 must be maintained. A student whose grade point average drops below 3.0 will have one semester to raise his or her GPA to 3.0 or better. Continuation of a student who fails to reach a 3.0 overall GPA during two semesters while in the graduate program is at the discretion of the Graduate Studies Committee (in consultation with the student's advisory committee). BIOL 7000, 7004, 7102, 7200, 7600, and 7996. Attendance at departmental seminars is mandatory. BIOL 7000 must be completed during the first year of residence and BIOL 7600 in the last semester. All students are required to take and pass a written and oral Comprehensive Examination administered by the student's advisory committee usually before the end of their fifth semester in residence. The scope of this examination is broad and includes a review of general biological principles. This exam must be taken at least one semester prior to graduation. Presentation of research (7600) and a thesis (7996) as approved by the student's Advisory Committee. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Pass a final oral examination administered by the student's advisory committee. This exam is a defense of the thesis research and is usually taken in the student's final semester. C. Program Requirements (Non-Thesis) A minimum of 36 semester hours of graduate courses is required, of which 26 must be at the 7000 level. The total number of semester hours required for graduation will be determined by the student's advisory committee based on academic background. No more than 3 semester hours can be satisfied by BIOL 7092. BIOL 7000, 7004, and 7200. BIOL 7000 must be completed during the first year of residence. Attendance at departmental seminars is mandatory. Though students will not present in BIOL 7200, their participation is expected. A grade point average of 3.0 must be maintained. A student whose grade point average drops below 3.0 will have one semester to raise his or her GPA to 3.0 or better. Continuation of a student who fails to reach a 3.0 overall GPA during two semesters while in the graduate program is at the discretion of the Graduate Studies Committee (in consultation with the student's Advisory Committee). All students are required to take and pass a written and oral Comprehensive Examination, administered by the student's advisory committee usually before the end of their fifth semester in residence. The scope of this examination is broad and includes a review of general biological principles. III. PhD Degree Program Program objectives are: (1) understand biological principles, concepts, and theories, and in-depth knowledge in a chosen specialty; (2) develop expertise in experimental design, data analysis, and oral and written presentation of research results; and (3) become competitive for professional positions in the biological sciences. A. Program Admission Application to The University of Memphis Graduate School. Application can be made on-line ( and /). Official transcripts of all previous academic coursework must be sent directly to The University of Memphis Graduate Admissions from the issuing institution. Prospective doctoral students must hold either an MS or a BS from an accredited institution. An overall minimum grade point average of 3.00 (on a 4.0 scale) for students with a BS or MS degree is usually competitive. Applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign institution must have their credentials evaluated by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services' website. The course-by-course report is required. a. Applicants must have satisfactorily completed ("C" or better) four upper division courses within the following six areas: Ecology, Genetics, Cell Biology, Microbiology, Physiology, and Evolution. b. Applicants must also have satisfactorily completed ("C" or better) seven courses within the following nine areas: General Chemistry I, General Chemistry II, Organic Chemistry I, Organic Chemistry II, Biochemistry, Physics I, Physics II, Calculus, and Statistics. Other courses in the sciences may substitute for these requirements. The Graduate Record Exam (GRE) is required and scores for the Verbal, Quantitative, and Analytical Writing sections are an important factor in the admission process. GRE scores should be submitted directly to The University of Memphis Graduate Admissions by the testing agency. Department of Biological Sciences Graduate School Application, to be submitted in an online fillable form ( ). A written letter from a prospective advisor within the Department of Biological Sciences that states that he/she will accept the applicant and how the student will be funded while in the program must be submitted to the Department of Biological Sciences. Applicants for the doctoral degree are expected to have made prior contact with potential research advisors in the department's graduate program. This is a critical first step; no applicants will be accepted to the Department without an advisor. Faculty research interests are listed on the departmental website; applicants are encouraged to interact directly with those faculty members who have research interests that match their own interests. Two letters of recommendation from persons capable of assessing the applicant's suitability for graduate work in biology must be submitted to the Department of Biological Sciences. International students for whom English is not their native language must submit proof that they have taken the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL); acceptable minimums are 550 for paper-based (PBT) and 79 for internet-based (IBT) exams. International applicants for Graduate Teaching Assistantships in the Department of Biological Sciences must obtain a score of 26 or higher on the spoken English component of the TOEFL iBT. Alternatively, applicants must take the SPEAK test (Speaking Proficiency English Assessment Kit) and obtain a score of 50 or higher in order to be appointed as a Teaching Assistant. The SPEAK test is The University of Memphis version of the TSE (Test of Spoken English), which was produced by Educational Testing Service. B. Program Requirements 1. A minimum of three academic years (72 credit hours) beyond the baccalaureate degree is required. A student entering the PhD program with a MS degree may be awarded 30 semester hours toward the 72 hours requirement. A minimum of 30 semester hours must be taken in residence. 2. BIOL 8000, 8004, 8092, 8103, 8200, 8600, and 9000. BIOL 8000 must be completed during the first year of residence. Attendance at departmental seminars is mandatory. Up to nine hours of BIOL 8092, and five hours of BIOL 8200 can be counted toward the degree requirements. Eighteen credit hours of BIOL 9000 must be completed during the program; no more than 18 hours will be counted toward the degree. 3. Foreign Language and Research - Students are required to demonstrate competence in a foreign language or research tool, or both. Completion of this requirement will be determined by each student's advisory committee. 4. Becoming a Ph.D. Candidate is a two-step process that is usually completed by the end of the third year. a. A written and oral presentation of the student's Research Prospectus will be made. Details of the plan of research must be approved by the advisory committee prior to collection of data. b. All students are required to take and pass a written and oral Comprehensive Examination administered by the student's advisory committee before the end of their sixth semester in residence. The scope of the examination is broad and includes a review of general biological principles. 5. A dissertation will be required of all candidates for the doctoral degree. The dissertation must show a mastery of the techniques of scientific research, and it must be a distinct and new contribution to the body of scientific knowledge. The student's Advisory Committee must approve the topic, prospectus, and the final dissertation. At least 18 hours of research and dissertation credit (BIOL 9000) must be completed during the graduate program; no more than 18 hours will be counted toward the degree. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. 6. A minimum of one published or fully accepted paper in a national or international peer reviewed scientific journal approved by the advisory committee is required. 7. Dissertation Defense and Final Examination - The final examination will be conducted by the student's advisory committee. The committee will consist, insofar as possible, of the same persons involved in the specialized knowledge examination. The final examination will be an oral defense of the dissertation and will be announced and open to the public. Upon successful completion of the examination and all degree requirements, the committee will recommend awarding the PhD. IV. Accelerated B.S./M.S. Program in Biology This program allows outstanding undergraduates to begin coursework for the Master of Science with thesis in Biology during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the accelerated B.S./M.S. program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with their advisor in the Department of Biological Sciences. Undergraduates selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study allowing them to complete their B.S. degree while beginning research and coursework toward their M.S. To apply, students must have a minimum 3.25 grade point average and must submit two letters of recommendation and a copy of their transcript to the Department of Biological Sciences. Applications must be submitted by the middle of the junior year and must be sponsored by a graduate faculty member. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for combination senior status (nondegree), which allows them to take graduate courses in biology. To continue in the program past the B.S. students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the Department of Biological Sciences M.S. program. Up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. Detailed program and application information is available in the Biology Advising and Resource Center. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .