#http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/people/profiles/hetherington.php
Robert Hetherington - Theatre &amp; Dance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Theatre &amp; Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Home Theatre &amp; Dance People Robert Hetherington Robert A. Hetherington Professor, Theatre &amp; Dance Phone (901) 678-2523 Email rhether@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-1350 Office 3745 Central Ave Theatre 117 Office Hours MWF 10:15-11:15 TR 10:00-11:00 Afternoons by appointment About Robert Hetherington Professor Hetherington currently holds a Faudree University Professorship (2015-2018). He Chaired the Department from 1997-2012, and was previously Professor and Artistic Director at Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio, for eighteen years. Recently, he served as the inaugural Provost Fellow at UofM and completed a year as Special Assistant to the President for Strategic Planning. He was twice honored with Tyrone Guthrie Awards for artistic work at Canada's Stratford Festival and has received the Dean's Creative Achievement Award (2004) and The Alumni Association Achievement Award (2007). He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa. Education ABD, MA Northwestern University, 1977 BA College of Wooster, 1974 Admitted Member, Stage Directors &amp; Choreographers (SDC)--the national labor union Experience Professional Directed over 100 dramatic, musical and opera productions professionally at Playhouse on the Square, Circuit Playhouse, TheatreWorks, The Canon Theatre, Opera Memphis and Theatre Memphis (locally); for venues in Dayton, Columbus, Chicago, and Cincinnati; also for several university theatres. In Memphis he has been recognized with more than a dozen Memphis Theatre Awards (The Ostrander) for Directing or Best Production. He was founding Resident Director for The Human Race Theatre Company in Dayton, Ohio, before coming to Memphis and worked in Canada as an assistant or associate director with Brian Bedford, Michael Langham, Tadeusz Bradecki, Diana Leblanc and Richard Monette. Representative directing projects include the UofM Centenary Celebration production of Lloyd Webber's The Phantom of the Opera, 1776, Jerry Springer the Opera, Crazy for You, Every Good Boy Deserves Favour, Inherit the Wind, Chess, Angels in America, Scotland Road, The Seafarer, Urinetown: The Musical, Sweeney Todd, Stuff Happens, Elegies: A Song Cycle, Parade, Hay Fever, Cyrano de Bergerac, Anton in Show Business, Twelfth Night, Cabaret, Peter Pan, Hamlet, and (most recently) The Physicists. Administrative Honors and Awards Research and Scholarly Activities Research Interests Teaching interests: Stage Directing; theatre history; dramatic literature; Shakespeare; musical theatre Publications Commissioned essays published by The Shaw Festival of Canada in their house programs on Light Up The Sky, The Mountaintop, Guys &amp; Dolls, His Girl Friday, Harvey, Wonderful Town, The Magic Fire , and Happy End (2005-2015) Commissioned essays published by The Stratford Festival of Canada in their house programs on The Physicists, Blithe Spirit, Pirates of Penzance, The Misanthrope, Peter Pan, The Importance of Being Earnest and Waiting for Godot (1996-2015) 2015-2016 Season Join us for our 2015-2016 Theatre &amp; Dance Season In the News Cassie Beck (BFA '99) talks about her role in the Roundabout Theatre production of The Humans. Watch Me – Theatre Video Take a closer look at the UofM Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Anthony Pellecchia Meet our new lighting and sound designer Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/14/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .