#http://www.memphis.edu/childcare/curriculum.php
Curriculum - Child Care - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Child Development Center Hours Policies Nutrition/Food Admittance Curriculum Home Child Care Curriculum A personalized approach to learning for every age range. Philosophy Each child is a unique and special individual. We realize that each child has different interests, abilities and needs. We strive to meet the needs, develop the interest and enhance the abilities of every child in our care. The children are encouraged to learn through activities that are appropriate to their age and development stage. Through play, the children are able to learn about themselves and explore and manage their world. Children can play alone or in small groups. We come together for song, stories and other "circle time" activities. We introduce reading readiness and number recognition activities. We believe that learning is a lifelong experience and should be fun and exciting. It is our goal to create an environment that emphasizes helping children gain positive self-concepts andself-discipline, as well as positive attitudes and feelings towards others. We strive to provide a safe, clean and healthy environment to give the children security, happiness and comfort while away from their parents. Caterpillars Curriculum This age group is so much fun! They seem to be in constant motion. They are anxious to learn about the world and will explore by tasting as well as by touching, seeing, hearing, and smelling. This means that it is essential to have a safe environment to support their explorations. The Caterpillars curriculum helps this age expand their vocabularies, find appropriate ways to express their creativity, and safely discover the world around them. Caterpillars’ curriculum was developed with the inquisitive preschooler in mind. It is unique in that its flexible design makes it adaptable for varying age groups and abilities. The teacher adapts the activities to meet the needs and abilities of her age group. Framework Curriculum The three year old is very inquisitive. They spend a lot of time observing and imitating others. They enjoy repeating songs and rhymes and playing word games. Three year olds usually enjoy playing briefly with other children but may still have difficulty cooperating and sharing with others. At this age much learning still takes place through play. The Framework curriculum was designed with this in mind. It creates a child-centered learning environment for the 3 year old. The curriculum focuses on a wide range of readiness skills using a monthly theme-based approach. The Framework curriculum is flexible in its design and places strong emphasis on literacy and family involvement. It balances child-initiated and teacher-directed activities; it provides opportunities for observing the children progress, allowing for individualization of activities. Butterflies Curriculum The four year old is bursting with energy and enjoys acting silly and laughing. This playfulness can help them develop literacy skills as they manipulate words and make silly rhymes or clap out the syllables of their names. Four year olds usually enjoy playing with groups of children. They are learning to take turns, share, and follow simple rules. Developed with the inquisitive four year old in mind, the Butterflies curriculum makes the learning process more meaningful to children. Through monthly themes, it keeps the children actively involved with a balance of child-initiated and teacher-facilitated activities that build a strong foundation of school readiness skills. Creative Arts After-school program We realize this age group has been in a structured environment most of the day and has lots of unspent energy. We designed the after-school program with this in mind. We have programs and activities that meet the developmental needs and skills of the children while engaging in fun. We have an enriched creative arts program. The students may take violin lessons, as well as participate in dance and drama. The students can enjoy active games and activities or just relax with a good book. We also have a variety of computer activities the students find fun and interesting. We have a designated time for homework and give individual attention when needed. News New things going on at the Center Contact Us Who to talk to and how to get there Campus Dining Learn about dining on campus Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .