#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11192
Department Chair and Professor Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Department Chair and Professor Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC416 Advertised Title Department Chair and Professor Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 018627 Category Full-Time Faculty Department Counsel Education Psych Research Position Summary The College of Education at the University of Memphis is seeking an innovative and experienced leader to chair the Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research. The Department Chair will encourage and support growth and innovative initiatives that build on the foundations of highly successful and nationally-ranked academic programs. The Department Chair is responsible for overall leadership and administration of the department including oversight of academic programs, faculty review, course scheduling, budgets, support of faculty productivity and professional development, and facilitation of innovation. This is a faculty position with administrative responsibilities and the Chair serves on the Dean&#8217;s Council and College Leadership Team. The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents institution, is recognized by the Carnegie Foundation as one of two public research universities and the only community-engaged public university in Tennessee. It has six colleges and seven professional schools serving a diverse population of approximately 21,000 students, 4,000 of whom are enrolled in graduate programs. The University is strongly committed to its urban mission and outreach programs and recognizes the diverse and integrated role played by faculty and administration in fulfilling a comprehensive mission of research, education, and community outreach. The College of Education, with 80 full time faculty positions, is fully accredited by NCATE and is a leader in the enhancement of teacher education. Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research is one of three departments in the college. For additional information please see the websites of the university ( ), the college ( and the department ( The position is a nine-month appointment with options for paid summer teaching and administrative responsibilities. The University offers an excellent benefits package, and the state of Tennessee has no state income tax. Memphis and the surrounding areas maintain a very low cost of living relative to most parts of the country. The anticipated date of employment is on or before August 15, 2016. Minimum Position Qualifications 1. A doctoral degree from an accredited university with a specialty in one of the teaching areas represented within the department; 2. A distinguished record of teaching,scholarship, and service that merits appointment as a tenured full professor in an area represented within the department; 3. Administrative and/or leadership experience in an academic unit, 4. Excellent interpersonal and communication skills; 5. Demonstrated commitment to educational and cultural needs of diverse populations; 6. Success in developing and sustaining community partnerships; 7. Experience with externally-funded projects; 8. Extensive involvement and leadership at the national level (e.g. journal editor, service in national professional organizations). In addition, the following qualifications are desired: 1. Experience with accreditation agencies such as APA , CACREP , CORE , NCATE or CAEP ; 2. Success as a principal investigator or co-principal investigator on a funded project; and 3. A national/international reputation and a record of outstanding scholarship in one or more academic areas of the Department. Special Conditions Posting Date 09/17/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range Salary will be competitive and commensurate with qualifications. Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Review of applications will begin October 12, 2015 and may continue until the position is filled. The department welcomes a diverse set of applicants. Applications are to be submitted electronically at Applicants are required to upload: (1) a detailed letter of application describing their teaching, research, and service interests, as well as leadership and administrative experience; (2) a curriculum vita; and (3) names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of four references. Applicants will receive a confirmation number when all application materials are submitted in workforum. Letters of reference and official transcript will be requested upon interview. Address inquiries and nominations to Dr. Larry McNeal at (lmcneal1@memphis.edu) or (901)678-2369. Instructions to Applicant regarding references Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Cover Letter References List Optional Documents Other Document 1 Unofficial Transcript