#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/events/events2014.php
Events 2014 - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Archives 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Events Events 2014 Hooks Calendar of Events: 2014 December, 2014 December 17 National Civil Rights Museum's Lunch and Learn Series The National Civil Rights Museum will show The Hooks Institute's documentary, The Civil Rights Movement: A Cultural Revolution, during its December Lunch and Learn session. Attendees are invited to ask questions and discuss the film following the showing. December 13 WKNO Broadcast of The Civil Rights Movement: A Cultural Revolution WKNO (Channel 10 Memphis) will broadcast the film The Civil Rights Movement: A Cultural Revolution at approximately 4:42pm. November, 2014 November 19 National Civil Rights Museum's Lunch and Learn Series Hooks Institute Director, Daphene McFerren, will be featured as a panelist at the National Civil Rights Museum's Lunch and Learn Panel, Voting Rights and the Twenty-fourth Amendment. *Image from Memphis-Press Scimitar, property of Special Collections, University of Memphis Libraries October, 2014 October 30 Hooks Institute National Book Award Co-Winner Lecture University of Memphis University Center River Room (UC 300), 5:00pm reception, 6:00pm lecture The co-winner of the Hooks Institute's National Book Award, Ruth Feldstein, will discuss her book, How it Feels to be Free: Black Women Entertainers and the Civil Rights Movement. A reception will precede the lecture, and the community is encouraged to attend. October 18 Daphene McFerren to Speak at Yale Yale University, 10:30am Hooks Institute Director, Daphene McFerren, will present her paper, "The New 'New Negro': Defining Blackness in the 21st Century", for the Afro American Cultural Center at Yale University. Contact the Institute for more information. October 9 Hooks Open House University of Memphis, Michael D. Rose Theater, 4:30pm reception, 5:00pm open house The Hooks Institute invites everyone to attend its open house on October 9. Attendees will learn about the institution's programs and how they can contribute. Additionally, three University of Memphis professors will present policy papers regarding the following subjects: The conditions that lead to the confinement of young, African American males in Memphis. The state of the middle class and African American families. The link between education and jobs. September, 2014 September 27 ASALH presents Hooks Documentary Peabody Hotel, Mezzanine Level, 6:15pm The Hooks Institute's docushort, The Civil Rights Movement: A Cultural Revolution, will be featured during the ASALH conference. For conference information, please visit Also at the conference, Hooks Institute director, Daphene McFerren,will participate in the panel, Black Workers and the Freedom Struggle in Memphis. *Image of Fayette Countians is property of Special Collections, University of Memphis Libraries July, 2014 July 30, 2014 Hooks Institute Teaches Fayette and Haywood County Civil Rights Movement to Shelby County Teachers White Station High School In partnership with Tennessee History for Kids and Shelby County Schools, Director Daphene McFerren, U of M professor, Dr. Loel Kim, UT Martin librarian, Dr. Richard Saunders, and G.A., Sasha Arnold will present the local civil rights movements in Fayette and Haywood Counties to Shelby County teachers at their annual social studies in-service. The Institute and its partners will provide the educators with information and resources to be utilized while teaching the events to their students. *Image from Memphis-Press Scimitar, Property of Special Collections, University of Memphis. May, 2014 May 16 Rebirth of the Dream Cannon Center, 7:30pm Hooks Institute is proud to collaborate and cosponsor the Memphis Symphony Orchestra concert, Rebirth of the Dream. Inspired by the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., the Memphis Symphony Orchestra's Rebirth of the Dream will demonstrate the undeniable power that music has to unite individuals and communities. April, 2014 April 26 The Civil Rights Movement and Its Influence on Music, Fashion, Culture, and Self-Expression The Memphis Hotel (formerly the Marriott) @ I-240 and Perkins, 7 pm Through retro dress, music, dance, and multimedia presentations, guests will explore the 1960s and the role of Memphis in the American Civil Rights Movement. Please contact the Hooks Institute for Sponsorship Information at 901.678.2769 or bhi@memphis.edu February, 2014 February 20 Race-girl: How an Artist Tackled a Touchy Subject, and How It Tackled Her University of Memphis, University Center Theater, 5:30pm reception, 6:00pm lecture Damali Ayo explores race relations from her unique perspective as a visual artist and author. She reflects on how racism has shaped her community, the larger national conversation, and her own health and artistic voice. Archives 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .