#http://www.memphis.edu/testing/services/proctor.php
Proctor Services - Testing Center - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Testing Center About Services Accommodations Visitor Information Lambuth Testing Services Educational Testing Service ACT Residual COMPASS CLEP DSST Miller Analogies Test Oral Proficiency Interview Para Pro Assessment Proctor Services TEAS Home Testing Center Services Proctor Services Proctor Services The Testing Center serves as a test center for outside schools or institutions that offer online or correspondence courses. These exams can be taken in our facility as either paper &amp; pencil or online. **Please Note : All inquires regarding RODP testing for University of Memphis students must be directed to the office of Extended Programs or Mary Crites at 901.678.5784. HOW TO SCHEDULE A PROCTORED EXAM To set up an exam to be proctored by the Testing Center, you must first contact your school or institution to receive permission to take your test at the University of Memphis. If our centers contact information is required at that time, provide them with the following: University of Memphis Testing Center 112 Brister Hall/Wilder Tower Attn: Kimberly Avant Phone: (901) 678-2428 Fax: (901) 678-2745 Email: kavant1@memphis.edu It is the test taker's responsibility to ensure that your school or institution sends the exam along with detailed proctoring and return instructions. Test takers are responsible for bringing an addressed and stamped envelope or paid courier envelope and label if the test must be mailed back. Tests may be sent to us via mail, fax, email or courier service. Please be advised that USPS estimated times might be delayed by 1 or 2 days since the exam goes through our campus mail system. It is your responsibility to make sure the exam materials are received by us in time to meet any exam deadlines put in place by your institution. Please schedule all tests at least 2 days prior to the requested testing date; all tests must be complete by 3:30 pm. Once your are given permission to take your exam at the University, you may set up an appointment during normal business hours with Kimberly Avant by contacting the office at 901.678.2428 or by email at kavant1@memphis.edu. We recommend that you contact the center to confirm the receipt of the exam prior to your appointment. Be sure to pay close attention to when your test must be received by your institution and make your appointment with plenty of time to account for test returned via USPS or a courier. The cost for proctoring services is $35.00 per exam. Exam fees may be submitted through our secure online payment system . (you must present a printed receipt in order to sit for your exam) Disability Related Accommodations : Please note that the students home school or institution from where the exam originates must directly provide the Testing Center with a request for accommodations. Services Educational Testing Service ACT Residual COMPASS CLEP DSST Miller Analogies Test Oral Proficiency Interview Para Pro Assessment Proctor Services TEAS Contact Us Let us know how we may assist you. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .