#http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/people/profiles/lacek.php
Janice Benning Lacek - Theatre &amp; Dance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Theatre &amp; Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Home Theatre &amp; Dance People Janice Benning Lacek Janice Benning Lacek Associate Professor of Costume Design &amp; Technology, Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Phone 901-678-3188 Email jblacek@memphis.edu Fax Fax 901-678-1350 Office 3745 Central Avenue Theatre Building Room 129 Office Hours Fall 2015 Tuesdays 10-12; afternoons by appointment About JANICE BENNING LACEK Professor Lacek joined the faculty in 2007 with teaching specialties in costume design and technology: introductory design, costume and fashion history, millinery and costume crafts, painting, dyeing &amp; fabric modification, rendering for theatre artists. She was the 2014 recipient of the Dean's Creative Achievement Award in the College of Communication and Fine Arts. Her professional costume design credits include theatre, dance, and opera projects across the country and internationally since 1987. Highlights include the west coast premieres of Jose Rivera's Marisol and The Swan , both at the La Jolla Playhouse, as well as credits with A.C.T. in San Francisco, LA's Mark Taper Forum, Syracuse Stage, San Diego Rep, the American University of Cairo, Egypt, and the Colorado, Utah, and Oregon Shakespeare Festivals (see publications). Her design for CSF's Richard II was included by invitation in the US entry at the Prague Quadrennial International Exhibition of Theatre Design in 1999. She was the resident costume designer -and a founding company member- of Denver's Curious Theatre Company (1999-2004), where she designed over 15 productions, including many original works and regional premieres, including Best of Denver 2009 for Sarah Ruhl's Eurydice , directed by Chip Walton. Memphis audiences have seen her work with the Tennessee Shakespeare Company, the Opera Memphis Midtown Opera Festival and Theatre Memphis. Professor Lacek was initiated into United Scenic Artists, Local 829 in 2002, and she is a member of the Southeast Theatre Conference and United States Institute of Technology Costume Commission. Education M.F.A. University of California, San Diego, 1993. B.A. Gettysburg College, 1985. Experience Professional Associate Professor, University of Memphis, 2013- present; Assistant Professor University of Memphis, 2007-2013; Assistant Professor, University of Colorado at Boulder, 1997-2003; Visiting Assistant Professor, Kenyon College, 1995-1997; Graduate Student Instructor, University of California-San Diego, 1991-1993. Professional Costume Designer since 1987. Research and Scholarly Activities Research Interests Costume design and technology for the entertainment industry; costume and fashion history, fashion theory; millinery and costume crafts, painting, dyeing &amp; fabric modification Selected Publications The Rape of Lucretia , This is the Rill Speaking , and Bon Apetite ! with Jamie Barton Opera Memphis Midtown Opera Festival, 2013 A Midsummer Night's Dream (2015), Twelfth Night (2014) A Midsummer Night's Dream (makeup design 2009), Tennessee Shakespeare Company The Phantom of the Opera , University of Memphis Department of Theatre &amp; Dance, 2012 Twelfth Night - or What You Will (2005) , Richard II (1998), As You Like It (1997), – Colorado Shakespeare Festival A Pair of Threes : Three Viewings and Three Hotels , Oregon Shakespeare Festival, 1996 Cymbeline , Utah Shakespearean Festival, 2002 Marisol, The Swan and What the Butler Saw with Kate Mulgrew, La Jolla Playhouse 1992 2015-2016 Season Join us for our 2015-2016 Theatre &amp; Dance Season In the News Cassie Beck (BFA '99) talks about her role in the Roundabout Theatre production of The Humans. Watch Me – Theatre Video Take a closer look at the UofM Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Anthony Pellecchia Meet our new lighting and sound designer Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/14/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .