#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/research/researchlabs.php
Research Labs - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources Research Lab Listing Lab Media/Videos Lab Websites Athena Project Assessment of Children in Educational Settings Laboratory Center for Health Promotion and Evaluation Child Health and Illness Lab - Child and Family HABIT Lab Historical Psychoeducational Test Collection Institute for Gambling Education and Research Knowledge Axquisition Laboratory Language and Behavior Lab (LaBlab) Literacy Lab Optimal Learning Lab Peer Interaction Group Research Lab Psychology of Language Laboratory Psychotherapy Research Lab Resilience Emerging Amidst Childhood Harships (REACH) Lab - Clinical Child and Family Trauma &amp; Coping Research Group Trauma Research and Recovery Lab Home Department of Psychology Research Research Labs Research Labs child health and Illness Lab - Child and Family The Child Health and Illness lab conducts research spanning the fields of pediatric psychology, child-clinical, clinical health psychology, and applied-quantitative psychology. Most broadly, this research focuses on cultural, family, and behavioral factors that promote health and reduce morbidity in childhood chronic illness. More specifically, this research hopes to: Examine models of stress and adaptation to promote quality of life and regimen adherence among youth with type 1 diabetes and their families Identify the influence of cultural and family factors on children’s weight, diet, and mealtime behavior, with a particular focus on obesity in early childhood. Integrate quantitative and behavioral methodologies to inform, develop, and refine clinical health interventions and assessment to reduce and eliminate health disparities. Point of Contact Kristoffer S. Berlin, Ph.D. ksberlin@memphis.edu Visit Website Institute for Gambling Education and Research - Clinical Health Psychology Concentration The Gambling Lab The Institute of Gambling Education and Research (TIGER) is composed of the Gambling Clinic and the Gambling Lab. The Gambling Clinic treats individuals with gambling disorders, trains professionals and doctoral students, educates consumers, as well as develops tools to measure and intervene with excessive gambling behavior. Point of Contact: James P. Whelan, Ph.D. jwhelan@memphis.edu gambling@memphis.edu Visit website The Gambling Clinic The Gambling Lab transforms its Gambling Clinic experiences into empirical questions about both risk factors and protective factors related to disordered gambling. Visit website Literacy Lab Our research focuses on three primary lines of inquiry regarding reading fluency and its role in supporting reading comprehension. First, we examine theoretical questions about the relation between oral and silent reading fluency across development and the roles of various subcomponent skills in facilitating fluency and comprehension. Second, we investigate assessment practices with the goal of ensuring that students with reading disabilities are accurately identified as early as possible. Lastly, we seek to develop literacy interventions that facilitate the development of proficient oral reading and independent silent reading skills. Point of Contact: Beth Meisinger, Ph.D. bmsinger@memphis.edu OptimaL LEARNING LAB The Optimal Learning Lab (optimallearning.org) represents Dr. Pavlik's and associates' work on a variety of theoretical and applied learning and memory problems. Specific interests include the intelligent tutoring, discovery of models, spacing of practice effects, testing effects, and forgetting. Please contact Dr. Pavlik to be placed on the mailing list. Publication and demo applications are available on the website. The Optimal Learning Lab is affiliated with the Institute for Intelligent Systems and Department of Psychology. Point of Contact: Philip I. Pavlik Jr., Ph.D. ppavlik@memphis.edu Visit Website Peer Interaction Group Research Lab Our research focuses on elementary school-aged children’s peer relations and social competence. More specifically, we examine peer social status and popularity; friendship relationships; traditional and cyber, aggression and victimization; and self-perceptions of social competence, loneliness, peer optimism, and attributions of respect. Point of Contact: Robert Cohen, Ph.D. rcohen@memphis.edu Resilience Emerging Amidst Childhood Hardships (REACH) Lab - Clinical Child and Family The REACH Lab examines pathways to risk and resilience among children who have been exposed to various traumatic experiences, such as interpersonal violence and loss. We contribute to the development of evidence-based interventions for families and children exposed to adversity by working within the community of Memphis to explore pathways to positive and negative functioning following exposure to traumatic events during childhood. Point of Contact: Katie Howell, Ph.D. khhwell1@memphis.edu Visit Website Challenging Health disparities in Adolescents &amp; Nurturing Global Empowerment (CHANGE) Lab The CHANGE lab explores risk and protective factors that contribute to HIV- and obesity-related health disparities among adolescents, young adults, and their families. In concert with many local Memphis organizations, we strive to develop culturally-tailored interventions that promote healthier lifestyles, support medication adherence, increase safer sex practices, and decrease risk behaviors among diverse adolescents and young adults. Point of Contact: Idia B. Thurston, Ph.D. bthrston@memphis.edu Visit Website Language and Behavior Lab (LaBlab) The LAB lab is run by Stephanie Huette. We seek to understand the principles and mechanisms of cognitive processes that underlie meaning (semantics) in language, as well as their implications for behavior. We also investigate the role of behavior and real complex environments on learning and real-time processing of language. Our research uses dynamic measurements including eye-tracking and motion-tracking technologies to track behaviors as they unfold. Point of Contact: Stephanie Huette, Ph.D. shuette@memphis.edu Visit Website Psychology of Language Laboratory Students in the Psychology of Language lab explore diverse topics in psycholinguistics, including discourse processing, pragmatics, nonliteral language (such as exaggeration and sarcasm), and computer-mediated communication (e.g., via e-mail, Twitter, and Facebook). Point of Contact: Roger Kreuz, Ph.D., Associate Dean rkreuz@memphis.edu Visit Website Trauma Research and Recovery Lab This lab conducts basic and applied research on the emotional consequences of exposure to interpersonal trauma. Point of Contact: Gayle Beck, Ph.D. jgbeck@memphis.edu Visit Website Trauma &amp; Coping Research Group The Trauma and Coping Research Group (TCRG) is focused on studying the ways that people respond to traumatic events, and on developing ways to help people suffering from the effects of trauma. The primary focus is on post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and some of the behaviors that can go along with it (e.g., substance abuse). We have conducted much of our recent work with military veterans who served in Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom (OEF/OIF), but we have also conducted studies with college students and community survivors of violence. Point of Contact: Meghan E. McDevitt-Murphy, Ph.D. mmcdvttm@memphis.edu Visit website Center for Health Promotion and Evaluation (CHPE) Established in 2002, the Center for Health Promotion and Evaluation (CHPE) is directed at understanding and improving health behaviors, particularly among young people. Most of our research currently focuses on reducing tobacco consumption, but we have also conducted research on a wide range of issues, including school violence, binge eating, dietary restraint, attitudes toward breastfeeding, and body mass index in teens. Point of Contact: Leslie Robinson, Ph.D. lrobinso@memphis.edu Visit Website Neimeyer's Research lab Psychotherapy Process and Outcome Psychology of Grief and Loss Constructivist Psychology Depression and Suicide Much of my research with my students and colleagues focuses on the attempt to reaffirm or reconstruct a world of meaning that has been challenged by loss and bereavement, especially in its more traumatic forms. This joins naturally with my long-term engagement in constructivist psychotherapy, whose goal is to help people symbolize, explore, and re-negotiate the self-narratives they use to organize their experience and identities as social beings. Point of Contact: Robert A. Neimeyer, Ph.D. neimeyer@memphis.edu Visit Website graesser's research lab Research Interests Cognitive Science Discourse Processing Artificial Intelligence Computational Procedures Text Comprehension Human and Computer Tutoring Design of Educational Software Human-Computer Interaction Dr. Graesser’s primary research interests are in cognitive science, discourse processing, and the learning sciences. More specific interests include knowledge representation, question asking and answering, tutoring, text comprehension, inference generation, conversation, reading, education, memory, emotions, computational linguistics, artificial intelligence, human-computer interaction, and learning technologies with animated conversational agents. Point of Contact: Arthur C. Graesser, Ph.D. art.graesser@gmail.com Visit Website Habit Lab The HABIT laboratory conducts research that addresses important public health priorities related to addiction and health. For example, alcohol abuse among young adults results in thousands of injuries, assaults, and fatalities each year and can set the stage for a lifelong pattern of alcohol abuse and/or dependence. We have conducted several controlled clinical trials that have demonstrated that brief interventions incorporating motivational interviewing and personalized drinking feedback can reduce heavy drinking among young adults (including both college students and military veterans). These interventions are now being adopted across the country. We are currently funded by NIH to improve standard brief alcohol and marijuana interventions by adding a behavioral economic supplement that encourages engagement in constructive alternatives associated with delayed reinforcement. The HABIT lab also conducts applied clinical research that is influenced by basic behavioral and biological research (e.g., translational research) and contributes to the overall goal of improving our scientific understanding of human behavior. For example, we have used behavioral economic theory and basic laboratory research to guide our applied research on substance abuse etiology, assessment, and prevention. Point of Contact: James Murphy, Ph.D. jgmurphy@memphis. Visit Website Assessment of children in education settings laboratory Students in the Assessment of Children in Educational Settings laboratory focus their scholarly and research efforts on the development, evaluation, and application of assessment methods designed to measure important constructs and behaviors in school and related settings. Point of Contact Randy G. Floyd, Ph.D. rgfloyd@memphis.edu Psychotherapy Research lab Studies in the research lab of Dr. Jeffrey Berman focus on a broad range of issues concerning the process and outcome of psychotherapy and the interaction between therapist and client. The lab is within the psychotherapy research concentration of the Clinical Psychology program. Graduate and undergraduate assistants are involved in all phases of the research process and are encouraged to develop their own research projects. Point of Contact Jeffrey Berman, Ph.D. jberman@memphis.edu Historical Psychoeducational Test Collection Research Areas Dr. Tom Fagan's research areas include historic tests, literature, and biographic information on psychologists significant to the origins and development of school psychology. Students interested in these topics are encouraged to contact Tom Fagan in Room 115, 678.4676. Point of Contact: Tom Fagan, Ph.D. tfagan@memphis.edu knowledge acquisition laboratory Students in the Knowledge Acquisition lab explore diverse topics in cognitive psychology including individual differences in learning and memory, as well as the educational practices that support successful knowledge acquisition. Point of Contact: Jason L. G. Braasch, Ph.D. jlbrasch@memphis.edu Research Lab Listing Lab Media/Videos Lab Websites Athena Project Assessment of Children in Educational Settings Laboratory Center for Health Promotion and Evaluation Child Health and Illness Lab - Child and Family HABIT Lab Historical Psychoeducational Test Collection Institute for Gambling Education and Research Knowledge Axquisition Laboratory Language and Behavior Lab (LaBlab) Literacy Lab Optimal Learning Lab Peer Interaction Group Research Lab Psychology of Language Laboratory Psychotherapy Research Lab Resilience Emerging Amidst Childhood Harships (REACH) Lab - Clinical Child and Family Trauma &amp; Coping Research Group Trauma Research and Recovery Lab Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .