#http://www.memphis.edu/alumni/about/awards.php
Awards of Excellence - UMAA - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The UofM Alumni Association Membership Get Involved Events News Tiger Pride Support UofM About About Board of Directors Meet the Staff Contact Us Mission &amp; Vision FAQs Manuals &amp; Forms Awards of Excellence Home UMAA About Awards of Excellence Alumni Association Awards The University of Memphis Alumni Association has been awarded several distinctions from a wide group of categories. SILVER AWARD for the 2012 DAA Invitation at the Tennessee College Public Relations Association luncheon. AWARD OF EXCELLENCE from CASE District III in Special Events for the 2012 Centennial Distinguished Alumni Awards. BRONZE AWARD from CASE Circle of Excellence National Awards in the Special Events category for the 2011 Tigers Around Town. GRAND AWARD from CASE District III in Special Events for the 2011 Tigers Around Town. ADMINISTRATOR OF THE YEAR at the University of Memphis in 2008-2009 was presented to Tammy Hedges, Executive Director, Alumni Association and Director, Alumni and Constituent Relations. GOLD AWARD in the Special Publication category from the Tennessee College Public Relations Association for the 2008 Distinguished Alumni Awards invitation. AWARD OF EXCELLENCE from CASE District III in Special Events for the 2007 Distinguished Alumni Awards, "If It Ain't Blue, It Ain't True". AWARD OF EXCELLENCE from CASE District III in Constituency Organizations Programs for the 2007 event "Boots, Brims &amp; BBQ". SPECIAL MERIT AWARD from CASE District III for Design in Print for the 2007 Distinguished Alumni Awards Invitation. SPECIAL MERIT AWARD from CASE District III for CD-ROM and other Electronic Communications for the Flash e-mail campaign, "Growing Your Association in a FLASH - Second Showcase" (John Donnelly) GOLD AWARD from TCPRA for the 2007 Distinguished Alumni Awards invitation for Special Publications. ADDY , silver level, given for the 2007 Distinguished Alumni Awards Invitation. GRAND AWARD from CASE District III for the 2006 Distinguished Alumni Awards special event “Into the Wild Blue Yonder.” This is the first time this award has ever been given. ADDY , silver level, given for the 2006 Distinguished Alumni Awards invitation. SPHINX AWARD , given at the gold level for the alumni interactive media project – flash presentation for members (John Donnelly). The University of Memphis Alumni Association was recognized with a GRAND AWARD FOR OVERALL ALUMNI RELATIONS PROGRAM at the 2005 CASE District III conference. The grand award is the top award given at the district level. The Alumni Association won an AWARD OF EXCELLENCE from CASE for the 2005 Distinguished Alumni Awards event “Into the Blue.” The University of Memphis Alumni Association won TWO AWARDS OF EXCELLENCE for materials produced for the 2005 “Into the Blue” Distinguished Alumni Awards. At the Memphis Advertising Federation ADDY awards, an ADDY and a BEST OF SHOW AWARD was earned for the True Blue Traditions booklet given to UofM freshmen. ADDY , gold level, given for the 2004 Distinguished Alumni Awards invitation. About Board of Directors Meet the Staff Contact Us Mission &amp; Vision FAQs Manuals &amp; Forms Awards of Excellence Join Now! Strengthen your alma mater by joining the Alumni Association Email365 Sign up to retain your @memphis.edu email True Blue Tailgate Join us on Tiger Lane before the Tigers take on the SMU Mustangs on Saturday, November 28 Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .