#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11181
Clinical Assistant Professor Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Clinical Assistant Professor Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC428 Advertised Title Clinical Assistant Professor Campus Location Park Avenue Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 009850 Category Full-Time Faculty Department Communication Sciences and Disorders Position Summary The School of Communication Sciences and Disorders at the University of Memphis ( is one of the leading academic and clinical programs in the country. This graduate-only program has moved into a new state-of-the-art facility, with significant space for expansion of new and existing programs. Members of the clinical and academic faculty are established in their areas of expertise and collaborate on research and service. This 12-month non-tenure track position is ideal for a strong innovative clinician who is open to developing new service delivery programs and would like the challenge of providing clinical education in an academic setting. Deadline: Review of applications will begin on October 30, 2015 and may continue until position is filled, pending availability of funds. Minimum Position Qualifications This position requires an MA, SLPD , or PhD. The applicant must have CCC - SLP and eligibility for TN State licensure. Special Conditions Posting Date 10/09/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range Competitive Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Interested applicants must upload a letter of application, vita, contact information for three professional reference providers, and unofficial transcripts. Instructions to Applicant regarding references Provide contact information for three professional reference providers. Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). * Do you have college teaching experience? Yes No Applicant Documents Required Documents Cover Letter Curriculum Vitae References List Unofficial Transcript Resume Optional Documents Teaching Philosophy