#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/events/events2013.php
Events 2013 - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Archives 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Events Events 2013 Hooks Calendar of Events: 2013 October, 2013 October 24 The Hooks Institute 2012 National Book Award Lecture Dr. Martha Biondi, The Black Revolution on Campus University of Memphis, University Center (River Room), 1:00pm lunch, 1:30pm lecture October 11 Rotary Club of Memphis Central Meeting Rotarian Guest: Daphene R. McFerren, Director Holiday Inn University, 12:00pm September, 2013 September 26 The Hooks Institute Annual Open House Panel Discussion Civil Right s at the Crossroads: Voting, Affirmative Action in Higher Education, and the Trayvon Martin Verdict University of Memphis, Michael D. Rose Theatre, 4:30pm reception, 5:00pm panel discussion March, 2013 March 19 The Hooks Institute National Book Award Lecture by Zaheer Ali University of Memphis, University Center Theater (UC145), 5:30pm reception, 6:00pm lecture Zaheer Ali was the project manager and principal researcher for the late Dr. Marable Manning's Malcom X: A Life of Reinvention . For more information regarding Zaheer Ali, visit February, 2013 February 27 Black Scholars Unlimited presents, Igniting Excitement University of Memphis, University Center River Room, 2:00pm-4:00pm February 22 Diversity and Pre Law Day, Featuring "Hill Harper" University of Memphis, Downtown Law School, 8:30am-3:15pm February 19 An Evening with BET and CNN Anchor T.J. Holmes University of Memphis, University Center Theater, 7:00pm February 15 Freedom Ball and Mahogany Award University of Memphis, University Center Ballroom, 7:00pm February 12 Norma Brewer Lecture Featuring Callie Crossley, Producer of Eyes on the Prize University of Memphis, University Center Theater, 6:00pm February 7 The Warmth of Other Suns: The Epic Story of America's Great Migration The Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities presents, Isabel Wilkerson, Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and bestselling author. University of Memphis, Michael D. Rose Threatre, 6:00pm reception, 6:30pm lecture Wilkerson describes one of the great under-reported stories of twentieth century American history: the "Great Migration" of African Americans from the rural South to the urban North. February 4 Fox 13 covers Duty of the Hour and interviews Daphene McFerren To watch the video, and to read more, click on the image! February 4 Duty of the Hour screening University of Memphis, Michael D. Rose Threatre, 5:30pm A free public showing of Duty of the Hour , a documentary on the life of the late Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks. Memphis Mayor A C Wharton will introduce the film. Duty of the Hour is a production of the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis. This event is free and open to the public; however, RSVPs are required. They should be sent to bhievents@memphis.edu by Jan. 31. Archives 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .