#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/services/registration.php
Registration and Student Records - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Services to Students Registration and Student Records Registration and Student Records All continuing students are expected to register during November for the following Spring semester and in April for the following Summer OR Fall. Students are responsible for becoming familiar with the deadlines, rules, and regulations related to registration. Student Records The Office of the Registrar provides grade reporting and transcript services. Current semester grades may be obtained on Student Self Service at . The University of Memphis requires written authorization from the student to release transcripts. Transcripts may be requested in person, room 003 Wilder Tower, by mail, or by FAX (901) 678-3249. Include the following information with your request: complete name, former names, Banner ID Number (U#) or last four digits of Social Security Number, birth date, current address, first and last years of attendance, address(es) where transcript is to be mailed, number of copies to each address. Sign and date your request. There is no fee for the first twenty transcripts; however, a transcript will not be released if you have not satisfied all obligations to the University. If you have any additional questions, please contact Transcripts Office at (901) 678-3927. The University is required by state law to withhold grade reports and transcripts from students who have outstanding financial obligations to the University. Student and Faculty Services Student Information Services provides services to students related to their current term enrollment and their personal biographic/demographic data. These services include: schedule adjustments (drop/add/withdrawal), name changes, address changes, etc. This unit is located in the Registrar's Office, 003 Wilder Tower. Veterans Educational Benefits &amp; Certification , located in the Office of the Registrar, Room 003, Wilder Tower, provides assistance for eligible national guard/reserves, veterans and/or dependents who enroll at the University of Memphis and request to use their VA educational benefits. Those who will be using VA educational benefits while enrolled at the University of Memphis should contact the office and be prepared to furnish the following documentation: 1. A copy of the Certificate Of Release Or Discharge From Active Duty, (DD-214 Member-4) or other armed forces separation papers 2. Copy of Delayed Enlistment Contract 3. Copy of marriage license and children's birth certificates 4. Copy of final divorce decree if either veteran or spouse was previously married 5. VA File Number 6. Notice of Basic Eligibility (NOBE) 7. Kicker Contract Enrollment Status : For VA educational benefits during the regular full 15 week semesters (Fall and Spring), 12 semester hours constitute a full-time load for undergraduate and law students. For graduate students, 9 semester hours constitute full time. Training time for summer sessions and other non-standard terms for undergraduate, law, and graduate students is determined by the number of semester hours enrolled in each part of term. The Veterans Administration places restrictions on those who receive VA educational benefits. Some restrictions include: (1) regular class attendance, (2) satisfactory academic progress, and (3) adherence to a specific degree plan. Degree Plan : Only courses required for the degree and major may be certified to the VA. Undergraduate students now have access to UMdegree, a web-based tool that helps students and advisors monitor progress toward meeting degree requirements. Courses that are listed as Fallthrough on UMdegree may not be certified for VA Educational Benefits without further investigation. Fallthrough generally indicates excessive elective course(s) that are not included in the 120 hours needed to graduate. Students who enroll in courses that are listed as Fallthrough on UMdegree should consult with their academic advisor and request that UMdegree be updated if the course(s) is not correctly listed. This verification is necessary before the course(s) may be included in the number of hours certified to the VA. Repeat Courses : VA will not pay for repeat courses if the grade previously earned is accepted by the University of Memphis and will fulfill graduation requirements (even if the course was taken at another institution with or without use of the G.I. Bill). Although advisors are provided for veterans, this assistance does not relieve students of the responsibility for fulfilling all VA and University requirements. Certification : To request certification for VA educational benefits, students must submit the Veterans Request for Certification form to Veterans Educational Benefits &amp; Certification. Certifications are not automatically processed, students must submit this form each semester. VA Educational Tuition Deferment Request: Service members, veterans, and dependents of veterans, who are eligible for and receiving VA educational benefits, may request to have their tuition and fees deferred until the end of the semester by contacting Veterans Educational Benefits &amp; Certification. Early Registration for Veterans: Public Chapter No. 788, 2012 Acts of the Tennessee General Assembly. This new state law provides that military veterans who entered and served honorably in the United States armed forces on active duty, active national guard, or active reserves must be allowed to register for classes at TBR and UT institutions prior to the general student population. The law applies to a military veteran who is currently a resident of Tennessee or whose home of record for military purposes is Tennessee, and who is a student at a public institution of higher education. Any veteran not currently receiving Veterans educational benefits who wishes to be identified as a veteran in order to receive priority registration should provide a copy of the DD-214 (or other appropriate military documents) to Veterans Educational Benefits &amp; Certification. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .