#http://www.memphis.edu/parking/blueline/
Parking and Transportation Services - Parking &amp; Transportation Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parking and Transportation Services Staff Directory Permit &amp; Other Parking Lambuth/Millington Parking Resources The Blue Line Information Vote For Your Favorite Blue Line Driver Track the Blue Line here! Download the Blue Line mobile app here! Blue Line FAQs Special Event Shuttle Reservation FAQs Special Event Shuttle Reservation Form Severe Weather Blue Line Procedures Your opinion matters: Take The Blue Line Survey Home Parking &amp; Transportation Services The Blue Line Track the Blue Line here! The Blue Line shuttle takes you where you need to go. FALL 2015 SCHEDULE Monday-Thursday: 7 a.m. - 11 p.m. Friday: 7 a.m. - 5 p.m. The Kroger Poplar Plaza Route begins Friday, August 28. NEW TARGET RUN for Fall! Dates are September 10, September 24, October 8, October 22, November 5, &amp; November 19. Service will be one pick-up at 4:00pm at all Main Campus Residence Halls and one return at 6:00pm from Target. The Blue Line &amp; Tiger Football Why worry about parking and traffic when you can take The Blue Line to the Liberty Bowl on Tiger Football game days? New This Year! Catch the TIGER WALK BUS three hours before kickoff to catch the Tiger Lane Player Walk! Catch the Blue Line to See the Tigers' football game on November 7. The Tigers host Navy on November 7 at 6 p.m. The Blue Line will start ALL SHUTTLES at 3 p.m. from the west end of the Central Avenue Lot. In honor of Homecoming, Alumni Association members may also use the Blue Line for this game. The shuttles to the game are free and open to anyone with a U of M ID or someone traveling with a person with a valid U of M ID. The Blue Line will run until Kickoff, and one hour after the game. Drop off is at Tiger Lane up until 4 p.m., and then moves to Gate 6 (student gate) after 4 p.m. When headed back to campus, catch The Blue Line on Hollywood outside of Gate 6. The shuttles can also be tracked on the Pink Charter Route on our mobile app. Download the Blue Line mobile app here ! Routes Blue Route (Main Campus) Has 14 stops on the Main Campus From 7 am-5 pm M-F there are 2 buses on the route From 5 pm-11 pm M-Th there are 2 buses on the route Anyone can ride the bus for free, after 5 pm riders must show current UofM ID Follow the buses on mobile app memphis.transloc.com Gray Route (Park Avenue Campus) Has 4 stops on the Main Campus and 5 on the Park Ave Campus From 7 am-5 pm M-F there are 2 buses on the route From 5 pm-11 pm M-Th there is 1 bus on the route Anyone can ride the bus for free, after 5 pm riders must show current UofM ID Follow the buses on mobile app memphis.transloc.com Green Express Route Green Route will only makes stops north of the railroad tracks Green Route runs the opposite direction of the Blue and Gray Route Never gets caught by a train Track the Green Route on your app just like the other routes Follow the buses on mobile app memphis.transloc.com Purple Kroger Poplar Plaza Route Returns January 23, 2015, 2-5 pm One bus dedicated to this route; runs continuously from the 4 stops located near Residence Halls. Route begins at the Central Parking Lot Stop #2 (near Carpenter Complex) at 2 pm. It will then travel the Visitor Information Center stop (near Richardson Towers), and then to the Rawls Hall stop (includes Rawls, Smith, LLC), and finally to the Athletic Office Building stop on Normal Street (near South Hall) utilizing the existing Blue Line stops. LAST BUS leaves the Poplar Plaza at 4:45 pm; it is your responsibility to make this bus. If you miss this bus you must provide your own means of transportation back to campus. Follow the buses on mobile app memphis.transloc.com The Blue Line Advertising Documents Internal (PDF) | External (PDF) The Blue Line Information Vote For Your Favorite Blue Line Driver Track the Blue Line here! Download the Blue Line mobile app here! Blue Line FAQs Special Event Shuttle Reservation FAQs Special Event Shuttle Reservation Form Severe Weather Blue Line Procedures Your opinion matters: Take The Blue Line Survey TigerPark Don’t wait in line…Go online! The Blue Line The Blue Line shuttle at the University of Memphis. Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place. Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .