#http://www.memphis.edu/parking/permit/visitor.php
Visitor Parking - Parking &amp; Transportation Services - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Parking and Transportation Services Staff Directory Permit &amp; Other Parking Lambuth/Millington Parking Resources Permit and Other Parking General Permit Parking Motorcycle Parking Priority Permit Parking Resident Permit Parking Park Avenue Campus University Department Parking Visitor Parking Home Parking &amp; Transportation Services Permit and Other Parking Visitor Parking Visitor Parking Garage Parking: Visitors may use the Deloach Parking Garage (Lot 40) located next to the Fogelman Executive Center or the Zach Curlin Parking Garge (Lot 3) located at 120 Zach Curlin. The visitor rate for both garages is $2.00 per hour with a $12.00 per day maximum. Metered Parking: There are metered spaces and lots located all around campus for a rate of $2.00 per hour. Meters accept coin and major credit cards. There is no time limit. Metered Spaces: Lot 44 , Lot 39 , Lot 38 , Lot 32 , Lot 15 , Lot 6 , Lot 5 , and Lot 2 . Visitor Parking Permit: Visitors may purchase a parking permit online by visiting the TigerPark Guest Account Login . PDF Tutorial for Purchasing a Visitor Permit Online One Day Visitor Permit for General Permit Parking is $2.00 Monthly Visitor Permit for General Permit Parking is $15.30 Visitor permits may also be purchased in Parking and Transportation Services located at 505 Zach Curlin Parking Garage. If you have any questions, please contact PTS at 901.678.2212 or parking@memphis.edu . Emeriti Parking: Emeriti Parking is for retirees of the University of Memphis. The Emeriti Permit (hangtag) allows the retiree to park in any General Parking lot or at any metered space at no cost. Visitor's Citation Appeal Form: Visitors may appeal parking citations online by visiting the TigerPark Guest Account Login , by e-mailing parking@memphis.edu or by submitting an appeal form to PTS located at 505 Zach Curlin Parking Garage. PDF Tutorial for submitting an online Visitor Citation Appeal Parking Lots Spaces Visitor Lot 2 18 Visitor Metered Spaces 2 Accessible Parking Spaces Priority Gated Access Lot 3 (ZC Garage) 894 Parking Spaces 38 Accessible Parking Spaces (first level only) General Permit Access Lot 5 160 General Permit Parking Spaces 6 Visitor Metered Spaces 4 Motorcycle Spaces Priority Access Lot 6 20 Priority Permit Parking Spaces 6 Visitor Metered Spaces 1 Accessible Parking Space General Permit Access Lot 12 21 General Permit Parking Spaces 9 Visitor Spaces 2 Accessible Parking Spaces General Permit Access Lot 15 2010 General Permit Parking Spaces 32 Visitor Metered Spaces 3 Accessible Parking Spaces 4 Motorcycle Spaces 15 Reserved Parking Spaces 9 Loading Zone Spaces Visitor Lot 32 36 Visitor Metered Spaces Visitor Lot 38 25 Visitor Metered Spaces 1 Accessible Parking Space Visitor Lot 39 18 Accessible Parking Spaces 6 Visitor Metered Spaces 5 Loading Zone Spaces Priority Gate Access Lot 40 (Innovation Garage) 838 Priority Parking Spaces 12 Accessible Parking Spaces General Permit Access Lot 44 1375 General Permit Parking Spaces 16 Visitor Metered Parking Spaces 20 Accessible Parking Spaces Permit and Other Parking General Permit Parking Motorcycle Parking Priority Permit Parking Resident Permit Parking Park Avenue Campus University Department Parking Visitor Parking TigerPark Don’t wait in line…Go online! The Blue Line The Blue Line shuttle at the University of Memphis. Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place. Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .