#http://www.memphis.edu/law/career-services/reciprocity.php
Reciprocity - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Career Services Student Resources &amp; Services Services Symplicity Guide Career Pathways Clerkships Pro Bono On Campus Interviews 1L CSO Orientation Job Fairs Job Postings Alumni Resources &amp; Services Services Reciprocity Symplicity Esq.Build Get Involved Employer Resources Posting a Job On Campus Recruiting Resume Collection Program Increasing Your Visibility Employment Statistics Home School of Law Career Services Reciprocity RECIPROCITY If you are searching for a job outside of the Memphis area, we can make a written request on your behalf to obtain access to the career services of another law school. Third-year students and alumni may contact us to arrange for reciprocity with other law schools. Reciprocity Services Services vary among the law schools that offer reciprocity. These services may include access to: The host law school's career services facilities. Legal publications, directories, handouts, and resource library. Job listings (typically on-site only, and not online) Typically, the following services are not available through reciprocity: Participation in recruitment programs Advising appointments Resume review services The duration of reciprocity services also varies from school to school, and, when granted, services are usually available for a limited time or limited number of visits. Many schools have additional restrictions on who may use resources (i.e. only recent graduates), so be sure to check the appropriate school's reciprocity policy. In addition, most law schools have a "blackout" period, a time during which no reciprocity requests are granted and during which reciprocity is unavailable. This time period usually occurs from mid to late summer until late fall, during which time law schools are preparing for and conducting their on-campus recruitment programs. All law career services offices reserve the right to refuse services to any individual school or to any person who misuses or abuses the staff, facilities and/or resources of the host school. A law school may also suspend reciprocity access to one particular school if that school's requests become substantially disproportionate. Memphis Law Students/Alumni Seeking Reciprocity With Another Law School It is important to understand that every law school has its own reciprocity requirements. Links to reciprocity policies of most law schools are posted on the National Association for Law Placement (NALP) website . Please refer to this site when deciding which law school to utilize for assistance in your job search. You must send an email to lawcareerservices@memphis.edu to request reciprocity from another law school. Please include in the email your full name, graduation month/year, and the Career Services contact name and email address at the school from which you are requesting reciprocity. Then we will send a letter via email requesting reciprocity to the law school from which you are seeking reciprocity. You must then await a response from the school whose services are requested before contacting the school. In larger metropolitan areas, reciprocity may be requested at only one area law school. This applies to New York, New Jersey, Washington, DC, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. Non-Memphis Law Students/Alumni Seeking Reciprocity with Memphis Law Please note the following procedures and conditions relating to students/alumni from other law schools seeking reciprocity at Memphis Law: Reciprocity is suspended during the late summer and early fall months (August 1-November 30) because of on-campus recruiting programs. Requests for reciprocity must be made by a career services official, in writing or by email, to lawcareerservices@memphis.edu . The CSO will send a response to the requesting school and copy the student or alumnus. The student/alumnus must bring a copy of the letter when coming to our office. Reciprocal services are generally available for a period of three months from the date they were granted. Services are available during regular business hours – Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Resources available through reciprocity include access to attorney job binders and the CSO library. The CSO is not able to extend advising services, online job-postings or law clerk postings. Career Services Student Resources &amp; Services Services Symplicity Guide Career Pathways Clerkships Pro Bono On Campus Interviews 1L CSO Orientation Job Fairs Job Postings Alumni Resources &amp; Services Services Reciprocity Symplicity Esq.Build Get Involved Employer Resources Posting a Job On Campus Recruiting Resume Collection Program Increasing Your Visibility Employment Statistics Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .