#http://www.memphis.edu/csd/research/crisci.php
CRISCI - School of Communication Sciences and Disorders - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Student Organizations Resources News Research CRISCI Hearing Research Speech Research Language Research Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Research CRISCI CRISCI The Center for Research Initiatives and Strategies for the Communicatively Impaired (CRISCI) was established in 1984 when it was designated a Center of Excellence for the study of communication disorders and received a grant of over $600,000 from the Tennessee Higher Education Commission. The State of Tennessee has continued to fund much of the Center's research through continuing Center of Excellence grants, and in 1988 designated the CRISCI an Accomplished Center of Excellence. The activities of the CRISCI encompass a wide range of research and services in communication disorders. From the outset, its principal goals have been to: develop innovative clinical procedures for the communicatively impaired create a model service delivery program for the Mid-South region establish an outstanding research program in communication disorders Accomplishment of the first two goals has been greatly facilitated by the fact that the CRISCI occupies the same space and shares professional staff with the Memphis Speech &amp; Hearing Center, a clinical facility that has served over 20,000 children and adults since its affiliation with The University of Memphis in 1967. Maintaining the quality and distinctiveness of the clinical procedures and service delivery program is, of course, an ongoing and continually challenging process for the CRISCI. As to the third goal, basic and applied research investigations at the CRISCI are directed toward improved understanding of the characteristics and abilities of normal and impaired listeners and speakers. This involves studies of normal and impaired speech, language, and hearing, as well as investigations of research methodology and development and application of modern technology that satisfy the needs of the communicatively impaired. Since receiving its designation as a Center of Excellence, the CRISCI has been able to pursue new avenues of research and expand its existing research capabilities. In addition to funding made available through the State of Tennessee, additional research funds have been received through grants from the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Deafness Research Foundation and other private organizations. The CRISCI is an integral part of The University of Memphis' School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. The CRISCI director also serves as dean of the school and director of the Memphis Speech and Hearing Center. All staff researchers are faculty members and professional audiologists or speech/language pathologists certified by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. The Center's 23,800 square foot facility provides ample space for clinical treatment rooms, administrative offices, and computer support facilities. In addition, there are eight fully equipped and operational research laboratories. The CRISCI researchers are supported by a staff of computer systems specialists. Services provided by the computer support group include design and development of application software, interfacing of computers with research laboratory equipment, integration and usage of commercial software, and general hardware/software technical assistance. Research CRISCI Hearing Research Speech Research Language Research Apply Now Want to pursue a degree in Communication Sciences and Disorders? Find out how to apply. Support the School Help support the School with the funding of various initiatives. Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Learn about our in-house clinical training facility. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .