#http://www.memphis.edu/biology/undergraduate/
Undergraduate Resources for Department of Biological Sciences - Biological Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Graduate Centers People Research Events Scholarships Undergraduate Resources Undergraduate Advising/BARC Major Requirements Minor Requirements Grade Policy and Course Repeat Policy Petition to repeat a course a second time Frequency of Course Offerings B.S. complete coursework grid sheet; first enrolled at UoMbefore summer '13 B.S. complete coursework grid sheet; first enrolled at UoM aftersummer '13 Upper Division Humanities and Social Science Electives Undergraduate Research Advanced Placement Scholarships Release for letter of recommendation Typical 4 year Sequence Alumni Undergraduate Catalog Home Biological Sciences Undergraduate Biological Sciences Undergraduate Information Selecting courses, advising prior to registration, providing information regarding college and university requirements, transfer programs, and guiding students along the path to graduation and beyond are just a few of the services provided by the Biology Advising and Resource Center (BARC) . All Biology majors that have completed CHEM 1110/1111 should come to the BARC for advising, unless they have arranged for a faculty advisor. Students that have not yet successfully passed CHEM 1110/1111 are generally seen by advisors in the ACC-Academic Counseling Center . Fall 2015 Special Topic Course Listing All students should come to the BARC for general information on Biology Permits, Degree Requirements, and Career Information. Check Out Undergraduate Research Videos! Biology Major (B.S.) Students who earn a B.S. in Biology should attain the following objectives: (a) possession of a fundamental understanding of biology spanning from the subcellular to the ecosystem level; (b) the ability to compete successfully for admission to graduate and professional programs and for entry level employment that utilizes the knowledge and training acquired during their academic program; (c) development of skills in analysis, synthesis, and quantitative reasoning that are essential in hypothesis testing, critical thinking, interpretation of scientific data, and written and oral communication. Undergraduate Resources Undergraduate Advising/BARC Major Requirements Minor Requirements Grade Policy and Course Repeat Policy Petition to repeat a course a second time Frequency of Course Offerings B.S. complete coursework grid sheet; first enrolled at UoMbefore summer '13 B.S. complete coursework grid sheet; first enrolled at UoM aftersummer '13 Upper Division Humanities and Social Science Electives Undergraduate Research Advanced Placement Scholarships Release for letter of recommendation Typical 4 year Sequence Alumni Undergraduate Catalog Biology@Memphis Newsletter Read about graduate and undergraduate student news; awards, grants and scholarships; publications, and more... Administration Budgets, accounting, facilities management, committees, meetings, and group email accounts Facilities Not your ordinary classrooms... Contact Us Main office contacts, faculty and staff administration Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .