#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/about/about-benjamin-hooks.php
About Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections About the Institute About Us About Benjamin L. Hooks Director's Message Hooks Institute Staff Community Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee The Hooks Institute and You Job Opportunities Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks About the Institute About Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks About Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks On November 5, 2007, Dr. Benjamin Lawson Hooks was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom - the nation's highest civil award. "The nation best remembers Benjamin Hooks as the leader of the NAACP," said President George Bush. "For 15 years, Dr. Hooks was a calm yet forceful voice for fairness, opportunity, and personal responsibility. He never tired or faltered in demanding that our nation live up to its founding ideals of liberty and equality. His testimony had special power - for the words that he spoke and for the example that he set as a man of decency and rectitude." In this photo (from left to right): Robert B. Hooks Sr., Robert B. Hooks Jr., Charles Hooks, Julie Hooks, Bessie Hooks, Raymond L. Hooks, Mildred Hooks, and Benjamin L. Hooks. A native of Memphis, Hooks was born on January 31, 1925 to Robert and Bessie Hooks. He was the fifth of seven children. His parents were both hard-working people, and his paternal grandmother was the second black woman in the United States to graduate from Berea College in Kentucky. As a result, he was encouraged to do well in his studies and to prepare for higher education. Hooks enrolled in pre-law at LeMoyne College in Memphis and then served his country in the Second World War. He found himself in the humiliating position of guarding Italian prisoners who were allowed to eat in restaurants that were off limits to him. This experience strengthened his resolve to battle bigotry. Hooks earned his J.D. degree in 1948 at DePaul University in Chicago and promptly returned to Tennessee, which had no law school that would admit him. Hooks vowed to break down segregation and later passed the Tennessee Bar examination and opened up his own law practice, confronting prejudice at every turn. After joining the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Southern Christian Leadership Conference, Hooks felt called to the ministry and was ordained a Baptist minister in 1956. He began preaching regularly at the Greater Middle Baptist Church in Memphis and became a pioneer in restaurant sit-ins and other boycotts sponsored by the NAACP. He entered state politics in 1954, making unsuccessful bids for the state legislature and juvenile court judge. Eleven years later, Tennessee governor Frank G. Clement appointed him to a vacancy on the Shelby County criminal court, making Hooks the first black criminal court judge in a court of record in Tennessee's history. The following year he was elected to the position. In 1972, Hooks became the first African American appointee to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). He addressed the lack of minority ownership of television and radio stations, the lack of minority employment in the broadcasting industry, and the image of blacks in the mass media. During his tenure, minority employment in broadcasting rose from three to fifteen percent nationally. Benjamin Hooks FlagHooks was elected Executive Director of the NAACP in 1976 and faced declining membership and organizational problems. "Black Americans are not defeated," he told Ebony Magazine in 1977. "The civil rights movement is not dead. If anyone thinks that we are going to stop agitating, they had better think again. If anyone thinks that we are going to stop litigating, they had better close the courts. If anyone thinks that we are not going to demonstrate and protest, they had better roll up the sidewalks." Under his fifteen year leadership, the organization rebounded, adding several hundred thousand members. Early in 1990, Hooks and his family were among the targets of a wave of bombings against civil rights leaders. After visiting the White House to discuss the escalating tensions between races, he gained the government's full support against racially motivated bomb attacks. Hooks was still critical of President George H. W. Bush's administration's lack of support for education and inaction on inner city poverty. However, he did not lay all the blame for America's ills at the feet of its elected officials; Hooks was a staunch advocate of self-help: "It's time today to bring it out of the closet. No longer can we proffer polite, explicable reasons why black America cannot do more for itself," he told the 1990 NAACP convention delegates. "I'm calling for a moratorium on excuses. I challenge black America today, all of us, to set aside our alibis." For the rest of his life, Hooks continued to press the cause for civil rights by encouraging both the study of the American Civil Rights Movement and the identification of contemporary issues that affect minorities, the poor, and the disadvantaged. He died at age 85 on April 15, 2010, leaving the Hooks Institute to promote his commitment to social change. In 2013 the Institute produced a documentary Duty of the Hour , immortalizing the life of Dr. Hooks in film. About the Institute About Us About Benjamin L. Hooks Director's Message Hooks Institute Staff Community Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee The Hooks Institute and You Job Opportunities Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .