#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11179
Assistant/Associate Professors Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant/Associate Professors Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC427 Advertised Title Assistant/Associate Professors Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 005126 Category Full-Time Faculty Department Computer Science Position Summary The Department of Computer Science at the University of Memphis is seeking candidates for at least two tenure-track Assistant/Associate Professor positions beginning Fall 2016, pending available funding. Exceptionally qualified candidates in all areas of computer science are invited while candidates with expertise in the following area are particularly encouraged to apply: big data, systems &amp; networks security &amp; privacy, CS education, and software engineering, as well as candidates engaged in interdisciplinary research. Successful candidates are expected to develop externally sponsored research programs, teach both undergraduate and graduate courses and provide academic advising to students at all levels. Application review begins December 1, 2015 and may continue until the positions are filled. Minimum Position Qualifications Applicants should hold a PhD in Computer Science, or related discipline, and be committed to excellence in both research and teaching. Salary is competitive and dependent upon qualifications. Special Conditions The department is especially interested in candidates with expertise in big data, systems &amp; networks, security &amp; privacy, CS education and software engineering, as well as candidates engaged in interdisciplinary research Posting Date 10/09/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range Competitive Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants To apply, please visit Include a cover letter, curriculum vitae, statement of teaching philosophy, research statement, and three letters of recommendation. A background check with be required for employment. Direct inquiries to Joyce Stevenson (jkstvnsn@memphis.edu) Instructions to Applicant regarding references Dear Applicant, Please be sure to provide the name and email of three reference providers as they will be required to submit their reference letter electronically. Thanks Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Cover Letter Teaching Philosophy Other Document 1 References List Optional Documents