#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/events/events2012.php
Events 2012 - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Archives 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Events Events 2012 Hooks Calendar of Events: 2012 OCTOBER 2012 October 03 Voter Registration Drive The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change sponsored a voter registration drive from 10am to 3pm Over twenty students volunteered at five locations on campus, to encourage their peers to register to vote! In addition, 286 people were registered to vote as part of the Hooks Institute Voter Registration Effort! For newspaper link, click here &amp; for photos from the event, click here October 03 Last Hooks Institute National Books Award Committee Meeting The Hooks Institute had a finally committee meeting with some of the panel of judges that have contributed their excellence and time to furthering the mission and vision of Dr. Hooks and the Institute. To learn more about the National Book Award, click here. SEPTEMBER 2012 September 27 Hooks Institute Open House University of Memphis, Scates Hall 204, 2:00pm-4:00pm This is a free event &amp; open to University of Memphis faculty, staff, and students. September 27 Hooks Institute Board Meeting September 27th marked the last Hooks Institute Board meeting of this year. We are thankful for our accomplished Hooks Institute Board members and their desire to pursue social change. September 5 Splash Mid-South 7:00pm Splash Mid-South host Olympian Cullen Jones at a reception sponsored by the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change. Splash Mid-South is committed to providing free or low-cost swim lessons to encourage minority participation in swimming. Splash Mid-South is a community-wide, volunteer driven initiative composed of the following partners: Le Bonheur Children's Hospital, Safe Kids Mid-South, City of Memphis, the YMCA, the University of Memphis, Memphis Tiger Swimming, the Hooks Institute, and numerous volunteers! To see more photos of the "Splash" visit here AUGUST 2012 August 31-September 21 "Lincoln: The Constitution and the Civil War". An Exhibit and Eight Presentations at U of M. The exhibit was organized by the National Constitution Center and the American Library Association. Local sponsors include the U of M University Libraries, and the U of M Department of History and the U of M's Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change. For more info click here APRIL 2012 April 20, 2012 Duty of the Hour: The Life and Times of Benjamin L. Hooks The Orpheum Theatre, Memphis, TN The public release and red carpet premiere of the documentary produced by the Hooks Institute and its director, Daphene McFerren, and directed by award-winning filmmaker Reece L. Auguiste. Tickets on sale to the public Feb./March 2012. April 18-20 Toward a More Perfect Union: Civil Rights, Human Rights, and Creating an Age of Social Responsibility A conference held to focus on the current state of civil rights activism and its relevancy to life in America and how the Civil Rights Movement shaped and defined issues relevant to international human rights movements today. Michael D. Rose Theatre, University of Memphis. This event is free and open to the public. April 15 WMC-TV 5 at 8 am, Memphis, TN Daphene R. McFerren, Executive Producer, Duty of the Hour , interviews with reporter Ben Watson April 15 FM 98.9 at 12:30 pm, Memphis, TN Julie L. Graves, Assistant Director, Hooks Institute, interviews with reported Tony Nichelson regarding the April 20th Premiere of Duty of the Hour . April 2 Channel 3 News at 9 pm, Memphis, TN Daphene R. McFerren, Hooks Director, and Ekundayo Bandele, Executive Director of the Hattiloo Theatre, interview with Channel 3 at 9 on the Hooks documentary, Duty of the Hour , and the Hattiloo Theatre production, Who Will Bell The Cat? Watch the interview here ! MARCH 2012 March 21 "Lunch and Learn: Still Mining the "Forgotten: Black Catholic Sisters in United States History" Lecture by Shannen Williams, Candidate for Ph.D. in History at Rutgers University National Civil Rights Museum, Memphis, TN, Lecture at 11:45am Sponsored by the National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis, TN. Hooks Institute, Co-Sponsor. This event is free and open to the public. March 16 Comcast Public Access Channel Channel 17, Memphis, TN Daphene R. McFerren, Hooks Director, interviews with Comcast regarding the Premiere of the Hooks Institute's Documentary, Duty of the Hour , and the Hattiloo Theatre production, Who Will Bell The Cat? FEBRUARY 2012 February 23 "The Fiery Trial: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery" Lecture by Eric Foner, DeWitt Clinton Professor of History at Columbia University University of Memphis, University Center Theatre, 6:00pm reception, 6:30pm lecture Sponsored by the Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities at the University of Memphis. Hooks Institute, Co-Sponsor. This event is free and open to the public. February 17-18 Broadcast Premiere of The Memphis 13 , a local film on the integration of Memphis City Schools Funded by a grant from the Hooks Institute, the documentary focuses on the experiences of the 13 African American families who faced integration into four formerly all-white elementary schools. The Memphis 13 airs on WKNO/Channel 10 on February 17 at 7:30pm; February 18 at 2:30pm; and February 19 at 12:00pm; and on WKNO2 on February 18 at 9:30pm February 9 An Evening with Rodney Slater, Esq. Rodney Slater, Esq., former Secretary of Transportation under President Bill Clinton, speaks on combining professional career goals with commitment to public service. University of Memphis, Michael D. Rose Theatre Entertainment Lobby, 5:00pm reception, 5:30 pm lecture. This event is free and open to the public. JANUARY 2012 January 31 Civil Rights Activists Maxine Smith and Russell Sugarmon host a meeting with the Hooks Institute and the non-profit community to introduce the Premiere of the documentary, Duty of the Hour University of Memphis, Michael D. Rose Theatre, 5:00pm. This is an invitation-only event. January 18 Hooks Institute meets with the faith-based community to introduce the Premiere of the documentary, Duty of the Hour Mississippi Boulevard Christian Church, Memphis, TN, 12:30pm. This is an invitation-only event. Archives 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .