#http://www.memphis.edu/accountancy/faculty/dspice.php
DAVID SPICELAND - ACCT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - School of Accountancy Welcome Programs Admissions Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Publications FCBE Faculty Welcome Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Admissions Getting Started Financial Assistance Application Form Networking &amp; Career Development Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Courses Offered Undergraduate Graduate Course Syllabi Publications Contact Us Home ACCT Faculty DAVID SPICELAND DAVID SPICELAND Professor, School of Accountancy Phone 901.678.2441 Email dspice@memphis.edu Fax Office FCBE 230 Office Hours Tuesday and Thursday 2:15 – 3:45 and by appointment Website Biography David Spiceland is a Professor in the School of Accountancy where he is Director of the Master of Science in Accounting Program and teaches Intermediate Accounting in the undergraduate program and Strategic Accounting in the Master of Science Program. He serves on dissertation committees for PhD candidates in the doctoral program. Professor Spiceland received his B.S. degree in finance from the University of Tennessee, his MBA from Southern Illinois University, and his Ph.D. in accounting from the University of Arkansas. Dr. Spiceland also is a CPA. Professor Spiceland is a textbook author whose several books include McGraw-Hill's best-selling Intermediate Accounting , now in its 8th edition, and Financial Accounting ,in its 3rd edition. Dr. Spiceland has published articles in a variety of academic and professional journals including The Accounting Review , Accounting and Business Research , the Journal of Financial Research , the Journal of Accounting Education, and Issues in Accounting Education . Recent Publications: Spiceland, C.P., J.D. Spiceland, and P.J. Njoroge, "Linking Healthcare Quality to the Bottom Line: What Do We Know?" International Journal of Management Accounting Research, Volume 4, Issue 2, 2015 [lead article]. Callahan, C.M., Spiceland, C.P., Spiceland, J.D. and Hairston, S., "Pilot Course: A Teaching Practicum Course as An Integral Component of An Accounting Doctoral Program," Issues in Accounting Education, 2015, in press. Spiceland, Sepe, and Nelson , Intermediate Accounting , Eighth Edition, McGraw-Hill, Burr Ridge, Illinois, 2015, 2013, 2011, 2009, 2007, 2004, 2001,1998. Spiceland, Thomas, and Hermann , Financial Accounting , Third Edition, McGraw-Hill, Burr Ridge, Illinois, 2014, 2011, 2009. Spiceland, Thomas, and Hermann , Financial Accounting: Making the Connection , First Edition, McGraw-Hill, Burr Ridge, Illinois, 2013. Spiceland, C.P., J.D. Spiceland, and S.J. Schaeffer, “Using a Course Redesign to Address Retention and Performance Issues in Introductory Accounting,” Journal of Accounting Education , Volume 33, Issue 1, 2015. Professor Spiceland’s civic service activities include serving as chair of the board for Kingsway Christian Church. He is founding co-president of the MidSouth Chapter of Foundation Fighting Blindness. His professional service activities include affiliations with professional organizations including the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the American Accounting Association, the Institute of Management Accountants, the Tennessee Society of Certified Public Accountants, and the Tennessee Society of Accounting Educators. To see Dr. Spiceland’s curriculum vitae , click here . Faculty Welcome Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Admissions Getting Started Financial Assistance Application Form Networking &amp; Career Development Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Courses Offered Undergraduate Graduate Course Syllabi Publications Contact Us Networking &amp; Career Development Learn more about two important keys to career success! Financial Assistance Looking for financial assistance? Try looking here first! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .