#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/cas/anth.php
Anthropology - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Anthropology Anthropology Department of Anthropology Anthropology Major (B.A.) Program objectives for a B.A. in Anthropology are to: (a) comprehend fundamental principles in the core subfields of cultural anthropology, biological anthropology, archaeology, and linguistics; (b) understand evidence of human origins and prehistory, and the interactions between culture and biology in human evolution and contemporary human variation; (c) grasp the concept of culture and its adaptive value, forces of culture change, and the implications of culture change; Gain knowledge of distinct ethnographic contexts; (d) learn about contemporary anthropological theory and basic research methods; (e) learn to organize and synthesize supporting data from multiple sources, and critically evaluate information through structured essays, oral presentations, and class participation; (f) assess critically core constructs, theories, methods and application in anthropological works; (g) develop the ability to write concisely and logically through essays and reports, and to practice proper grammar, composition, and citation; (h) demonstrate clear and effective communication skills for debating positions, and for informing and persuading audiences through participation in class discussion and oral presentations; (i) apprehend major social and cultural concerns, and gain a comparative and non-ethnocentric knowledge of the world's communities; (j) appreciate anthropological research ethics, and the value of civic and moral engagement; (k) experience opportunities for engagement through enhanced learning options, such as community-based research, service learning, internships, and study-abroad programs. A. University General Education Program (41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. B. College and Degree (B.A.) Requirements (12-16 hours) The College and Bachelor of Arts requirements are in addition to the University General Education Program requirements. C. The Major (30 hours) Completion of 30 semester hours in anthropology courses including ANTH 1100, 1200, 3200, 4065; and 18 additional upper division semester hours. D. Electives Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. E. Honors Program The Department of Anthropology offers an honors program in anthropology to the superior anthropology student who desires a more intensive approach to and knowledge of the discipline, a deeper understanding of research skills, and an opportunity for original criticism and analysis. To be eligible a student must (a) have the approval of the Department Chair, (b) be an anthropology major, (c) have attained at least junior standing, (d) have completed successfully ANTH 1100, 1200, and one upper-division anthropology course, (e) have maintained a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.00 in overall studies, (f) have maintained a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.25 in anthropology, (g) have completed four honors courses in anthropology (at least one of which must be an independent study culminating in a research paper/thesis or research report) and a minimum of six hours in honors courses outside anthropology. Those students who complete the program and the regular college requirements will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degree conferred, “With Honors in Anthropology.” Moreover the student’s diploma and the record at the University of Memphis will reflect this accomplishment. Details of the program are available at the Department of Anthropology office. Anthropology Minor Completion of 18 semester hours in anthropology courses, including ANTH 1100, 1200, 3200, and 4065. Typical 4-Year Anthropology Sequence Freshman Year ANTH 1100 3 ANTH 1200 3 ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 MATH* 3-4 Nat. Sci./Math/B.A. 3-4 Foreign Language/B.A. 3 Foreign Language/B.A. 3 Elective 3 Humanities/Fine Arts* 3 Semester Totals 15-16 hrs 15-16 hrs Sophomore Year ANTH 3200 3 History* 3 Elective 3 Elective 3 ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 Fine Arts * 3 Natural Science* 4 Natural Science* 4 History* 3 UD elective 3 Semester Totals 16 hrs 16 hrs Junior Year UD ANTH 3 ANTH 4065 3 COMM 2381 3 UD ANTH 3 Elective 3 UD elective 3 UD elective 3 Elective 3 UD ANTH 3 Elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 15 hrs Senior Year UD ANTH 3 UD ANTH 3 Humanities/B.A. 3 UD ANTH 3 Elective 3 UD elective 3 Elective 3 Elective 4 UD elective 3 Semester Totals 15 hrs 13 hrs Total Hours: 120-122 Total Hours Required for Graduation: 120 *Must satisfy University General Education Program Requirement College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .