#http://www.memphis.edu/cjustice/undergraduate/
Undergraduate - Criminal Justice - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Internships People Home Criminal Justice Undergraduate Undergraduate Program The department of Criminology and Criminal Justice is located in the College of Arts and Sciences where students may obtain: A major in Criminology and Criminal Justice; A minor in Criminology and Criminal Justice; or University Honors with an emphasis in Criminology and Criminal Justice Departmental Honors Program The Undergraduate Bulletin has information about admission requirements, majors, departments, course descriptions, degree planning, and other information. If you would like to see a typical four-year plan, click here . Students may apply on-line for admission to Undergraduate Programs at the University of Memphis by completing an application at: . Students may also contact the University of Memphis for regular application forms. A listing of undergraduate courses in Criminology and Criminal Justice can be found in the Undergraduate Catalog . The structure of the major, minor, and honors degree are also outlined. Please contact the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice if you have other questions about our degree programs. Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice 311 McCord Hall The University of Memphis Memphis, Tennessee 38152 (901) 678-2737 (901) 678-5279 (FAX) The Major The Major (36 hours) Completion of 36 semester hours of criminology and criminal justice including CJUS 1100, 2101, 3130, 3540 and 4110, plus 21 additional hours in criminology and criminal justice, of which at least 15 hours must be at the upper-division level. Students will be allowed no more that 6 hours of credit toward the degree in non-classroom courses such as internships and individual directed studies. Electives Electives may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120. Honors Program Majors who have completed at least 55 hours of coursework (with at least 9 hours in Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice) and have a 3.25 or higher departmental and overall grade point average are invited to apply for admissions to the department's honors program. Students who are admitted must complete 15 hours of honors coursework in the Department, with at least 9 hours being upper division criminal justice courses. Honor students must maintain a grade point average of at least 3.25. Students who complete the program and the regular college requirement will be recognized at the commencement ceremony by having their degrees conferred "With Honors in Criminology and Criminal Justice." The student's diploma and the official record at The University of Memphis will also reflect this accomplishment. The Minor Completion of 18 hours in criminal justice courses including CJUS 1100, 2101, 3540, and 9 additional hours in Criminology and Criminal Justice courses. Criminal Justice Student Association All majors and minors studying criminology and criminal justice at the UofM are eligible to become members of the CJSA. News &amp; Events Find out what's happening and how you can be involved! Contact Us Main office and location information SUAPP The Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .