#http://www.memphis.edu/biology/centers/
Centers in Department of Biological Sciences - Biological Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Graduate Centers People Research Events Scholarships Home Biological Sciences Centers Centers Bioinformatics Program Bioinformatics is an emerging interdisciplinary field which combines mathematical and computer sciences with biology and/or medicine. With the recent advancements in biotechnology, biologists are frequently overloaded with large datasets which need to be stored and analyzed in automated ways. Bioinformatics provides the tools to understand complex biological systems ranging from entire ecological systems, to specific human diseases, to cellular and molecular networks. Visit their website for more information. Ecological Research Center The Ecological Research Center serves as a research and advisory asset to the regional community. Ensuring ecologically sound planning and development within the urban environment is the most vital goal of the Center. The Center assists in the identification of ecologically related problems and avenues for resolution. Programs developed by the Center benefits residents of Memphis, the Mid-South, and the global community by assessing issues that explore and improve the quality of life for every individual. The Center takes a proactive approach to meet community needs while considering the concerns of all stakeholders. Visit their website for more information. Feinstone Center for Genomic Research The purpose of the Feinstone Center for Genomic Research is to foster research and education in the area of genomic research, providing a focal point for these activities within the University of Memphis and the Memphis scientific community. Currently, a major focus of this research is in the area of functional genomics, supporting studies to define the influence of both genetic and environmental factors on gene expression. The goal of this research is to understand the anatomy of the genome and the functions associated with sets of genetic information. New technologies supported by the center are helping scientists to redefine infectious and chronic diseases, aging and responses to environmental pollutants and drugs, in terms of complex integrated pathways. These same technologies are providing rapid advances in the areas of agriculture and bioremediation. Visit their website for more information. Integrated Microscopy Center The Integrated Microscopy Center (IMC) is a resource facility of the University of Memphis. It provides expertise in the use of microscopy to students, faculty and researchers at the University of Memphis and throughout the immediate area. The IMC houses light microscopes and electron microscopes and ancillary equipment sample preparation. The IMC is accredited by the State of Tennessee and Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) to prepare clinical samples for electron microscopy. The IMC includes the new Materials Science Laboratory now open (located in the Integrated Microscopy Center in the basement of the Life Sciences Building). Featuring an X-ray photoelectron spectrometer (XPS) and a class 1000 clean room equipped with a deposition unit, photo-lithography station, wire bonder and spin coater, the Materials Science Lab is the first of its kind in west Tennessee. With professional staff and equipment enabling research and training for students, postdocs, and researchers in micro-fabrication and surface characterization, this facility significantly enhances the University's capabilities and competitiveness in the targeted growth area of interdisciplinary materials science. Visit their website for more information. Meeman Biological Field Station The Edward J. Meeman Biological Field Station is the department’s primary field research and teaching venue for ecology, environmental biology, and natural history. A member of the Organization of Biological Field Stations (OBFS) , the main station property consists of 623 acres of forests, ponds, and meadows that encompass upland areas of the Chickasaw bluffs as well as bottomland habitats near the Mississippi River. This habitat diversity and proximity to the largest river in North America makes Meeman Station an ideal location for research in both terrestrial and aquatic ecology. Moreover, being only 23 miles from the main campus and having both classroom and dormitory facilities, Meeman is able to provide students with a wealth of hands-on learning experiences in field course offered during regular semesters and summer sessions. Visit their website for more information. Biology@Memphis Newsletter Read about graduate and undergraduate student news; awards, grants and scholarships; publications, and more... Administration Budgets, accounting, facilities management, committees, meetings, and group email accounts Facilities Not your ordinary classrooms... Contact Us Main office contacts, faculty and staff administration Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .