#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/engr/biom.php
Biomedical Engineering - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Biomedical Engineering Biomedical Engineering EUGENE C. ECKSTEIN, PhD Chair Room 330, Engineering Technology 901.678.3733 JOEL D. BUMGARDNER, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies E-Mail: jbmgrdnr@memphis.edu AMY DEJONGH CURRY, PhD Coordinator of Graduate Studies E-Mail: adejongh@memphis.edu I. The Department of Biomedical Engineering at The University of Memphis and the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Biomedical Engineering at The University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, participate in the Joint Program in Biomedical Engineering. The Joint Program offers graduate programs leading to the degrees of Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy in Biomedical Engineering. Students may elect courses of study in the following areas: biomaterials, biomechanics, biosensors, cardiopulmonary engineering, cell and tissue engineering, electrophysiology, medical imaging, and orthopedic biomechanics. All graduate students must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued. PPI STATEMENT All college transcripts and test score information should also be sent directly to Graduate Admissions. Beginning with Summer and Fall 2013 admittance , the Master of Science and PhD programs in the Herff College of Engineering require the ETS® Personal Potential Index (PPI) Evaluation Report containing a minimum of three (3) evaluations from separate evaluators in order to consider your application complete. The PPI is a third-party evaluative tool administered by the ETS (Educational Testing Service) organization. There is no fee to submit the PPI report to the University of Memphis. You can create an ETS PPI account and review the ETS PPI Information Bulletin, which explains the service, at . PPI - Steps At A Glance Create an ETS PPI account to begin the process. Provide contact information for the evaluators you would like to complete an ETS PPI evaluation. ETS sends an email to each evaluator inviting them to access the ETS PPI system and complete your evaluation. Each evaluator logs in to the ETS PPI system to rate you on six personal attributes and provide an overall evaluation. Evaluators also may provide optional comments for each attribute as well as for the overall rating. You are notified via e-mail when each time that one of your evaluators completes their PPI. **THE MOST IMPORTANT STEP** After all of your evaluators have completed their PPI reports, you must log back into your PPI account, designate the University of Memphis Office of Graduate Admissions to receive an ETS PPI Evaluation Report and select the evaluations that are to be included in the report. Our office cannot access your PPI recommendations until you complete this step. Once you designate the University of Memphis to receive an ETS PPI Evaluation Report, ETS creates an evaluation report and sends it electronically to the University of Memphis, Office of Graduate Admissions. Allow up to 5 days for the report to be processed and sent to the University of Memphis. View a sample PPI Report. The evaluators/faculty members who you choose should be individuals that you believe are best able to comment objectively on your intellectual and professional achievements and potential. We may call or write your recommenders for more information. II. MS Degree Program Program objectives are: (1) ability to apply advanced knowledge of mathematics, physical sciences, and engineering principles to the solution of practical engineering problems; (2) meet or exceed the needs and expectations of public and private sector employers for MS graduates; and (3) preparation to pursue additional advanced studies if so desired A. Admission Requirements In addition to meeting the minimum admission requirements of the two universities and the Herff College of Engineering, applicants must meet the following criteria: An appropriate bachelor’s degree (biomedical, chemical, electrical, mechanical, or others as defined by the Joint Program); An undergraduate GPA of at least 3.00; Acceptable scores on the GRE. Applicants whose native language is other than English must score at least 550 (or 210 computer-based) on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). These are the minimum program admission requirements. Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee admission into the Joint Program. Applicants are further advised that the department reserves the right to deny some applications for admission because of limited availability of faculty or physical facilities to accommodate the applicant’s research interests. In unusual circumstances where the above admission requirements cannot be met, an applicant may seek exceptions by contacting the Coordinator of Graduate Studies for the Joint Program. B. Graduation Requirements Students may elect to graduate from the Joint Program with a Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering through either a thesis or a project option. Thesis Option: Students must complete 30 credit hours, 21 hours of which must be 7000-level or higher course work (or The University of Tennessee equivalent). All students are required to take 6 credit hours in the life sciences area (BIOM 7004 and BIOM 7005), 6 credit hours in mathematics and its applications (BIOM 7101 and another course selected from a list of mathematics courses approved by the Joint Program), 6 credit hours of thesis, and 12 credit hours of engineering electives, of which one course must be BIOM 7209 or BIOM 7105. Oral defense of the thesis to their graduate committee and an oral exam are required. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. Project Option: Students will be required to complete 33 credit hours, 24 hours of which must be 7000-level or higher course work (or The University of Tennessee equivalent). All students are required to take 6 credit hours in the life sciences area (BIOM 7004 and BIOM 7005), 6 credit hours in mathematics and its applications (BIOM 7101 and another course selected from a list of mathematics courses approved by the Joint Program), and 18 credit hours of engineering electives, including BIOM 7209 and BIOM 7991. Oral defense of the project to their graduate committee and a written comprehensive exam are required. C. Retention Policy Students who have been admitted to the program on the condition that they complete prerequisite course work must make satisfactory progress toward this goal each semester of enrollment. Failure to make satisfactory progress may result in dismissal from the program. All students are required to maintain a grade point average (GPA) of at least 3.00. Failure to maintain the minimum GPA is considered sufficient cause for being dismissed from the program. In addition, a student whose GPA falls below 3.0 is ineligible for a graduate assistantship. Students will be permitted two (2) grades of 2.00 in courses taken at the two universities. Students will be evaluated by the Joint Program faculty at the end of the semester in which a third grade of 2.00 or lower is earned for possible dismissal from the program. II. Accelerated BS/MS Program in Biomedical Engineering This program allows outstanding undergraduates in biomedical engineering or an approved undergraduate discipline to begin the coursework for the Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering during their senior year. Students are encouraged to begin planning to enter the Accelerated BS/MS program early in their undergraduate career, in consultation with an advisor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering. Working with the undergraduate and graduate academic coordinators, undergraduates selected into this program begin a carefully tailored course of study that will allow them to complete their BS degree while they also begin the coursework toward their MS To apply, students must have a minimum 3.25 grade point average, and must submit two reference letters and a copy of their transcript to the Biomedical Engineering department. Each applicant will complete an interview with the graduate academic coordinator in biomedical engineering. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for the accelerated BS/MS program, which allows them to take graduate courses in biomedical engineering. To continue in the program past the BS, students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the Biomedical Engineering department's MS program. Only in ABM programs, up to 9 hours of graduate course work may be applied to both the undergraduate and graduate programs. However, any graduate coursework will not apply to undergraduate GPA. III. PhD Degree Program A. Admission Requirements See the beginning of the College section for admission, retention, and graduate requirements, and program objectives. B. Graduation Requirements Students admitted to the PhD program with a masters degree must complete 57 hours of course work. This includes 6 credit hours in life sciences; 6 credit hours in mathematics and its applications; 15 credit hours of engineering electives, including BIOM 8209 and BIOM 8105; and up to 30 hours of dissertation (BIOM 9000). NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide . Students admitted to the PhD program with a bachelors degree must complete 90 hours of course work. This includes 12 credit hours in life sciences; 12 credit hours in mathematics and its applications; 24 credit hours of engineering electives, including BIOM 8209 and BIOM 8105; and up to 30 hours of dissertation (BIOM 9000). All PhD students are required to complete a comprehensive examination with at least a minimum passing score on the written portion and a satisfactory performance on the oral portion of the exam. A second and final attempt to pass this examination may be granted by the student’s advisory committee; failure to pass this exam will result in dismissal from the program. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .