#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/students/netiquette.php
Netiquette Guide for Online Courses - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News Students Students Future Students Current Students Complete Professional Program Undergraduate Student Services Office FCBE Academic Integrity FCBE Standards for Academic Integrity The Fogelman Student Code of Professionalism Netiquette Guide for Online Courses Understanding Plagiarism FCBE Internships FCBE Scholarships Student Organizations Home FCBE Students Netiquette Guide for Online Courses Netiquette Guide for Online Courses It is important for you as a student to recognize that the online classroom is in fact a classroom, and certain behaviors are expected when you communicate with both your peers and your instructors. These guidelines for online behavior and interaction are known as “netiquette”. The purpose of the following information is to help you be a more effective and successful student when communicating via email, chat rooms, or on discussion boards as a part of your online learning activities in the Fogelman College. Why Netiquette is important to you as an online student Proper conduct in an online class is just as important as in a face-to-face classroom with similar potential repercussions for failing to maintain decorum. Remember that in an online class it is common for a very substantial portion of your grade to be a function of how well you perform in online discussion areas and other “classroom participation” activities. Your ability to clearly and properly communicate in an online class can be every bit as important to your success as how you perform on multiple choice tests and written assignments. You can start by either: Viewing this short Youtube video on Netiquette Or visiting Virginia Shea's Netiquette Home Page “Soft” Misconduct vs. Misconduct with Concrete Repercussions Some forms of online misconduct are merely bothersome to others with the impact being limited to your instructor or fellow students finding you annoying and their being less likely to take your thoughts seriously. Other forms of online misconduct can potentially cross a line into the area of academic dishonesty and be treated no differently than cheating on an exam or plagiarizing a paper. It is therefore important that you take these guidelines seriously as they can have very real impact on your success as an online student. You want to avoid being guilty of misbehavior in both forms regardless of the level of impact. Below are specific instructions on how to be the most positive and effective digital communicator that you can be in all areas of communication, but most especially in your online classes. GENERAL GUIDELINES When communicating online, you should always: Treat your instructor(s) with respect, even in email or in any other online communication. Always use your professors’ proper title: Dr. or Prof., or if you in doubt use Mr. or Ms. (Corollary: Make sure if you use a gender-specific title that you are clear on their gender. Some names can be gender ambiguous. When in doubt, go find a picture of them online.) Unless specifically invited, don’t refer to them by first name. Some will be OK called “Bob” and others will expect to be “Dr. Smith”. Use clear and concise language. Be respective of readers’ time and attention. Remember that all college level communication should have correct spelling and grammar. Avoid slang terms such as “wassup?” and texting abbreviations such as “u” instead of “you”. Use standard fonts that are optimized for online reading (e.g., sans serif) along with a consistent and readable size (12 or 14 pt.) Avoid using the caps lock feature AS IT CAN BE INTERPRETTED AS YELLING. Limit and possibly avoid the use of emoticons. Not everyone knows how to interpret them. Be cautious when using humor or sarcasm as tone is sometimes lost in an email or discussion post and your message might be taken literally or offensively. Be careful sharing personal information online (both yours and other’s). If you are in a health-care course follow HIPPA guidelines including not sending confidential patient information via e-mail or posting online. DISCUSSION BOARD “NETIQUETTE” AND GUIDELINES When posting on the Discussion Board in your online class, you should: Make posts that are on topic and within the scope of the course material. If necessary, re-read the instructions from your instructor. Take your posts seriously and review and edit your posts before sending. (Would you put sloppy writing with poor grammar in a formal research paper?) Be as brief as possible while still making a thorough comment. Remember this is a discussion area, not a doctoral thesis. Always give proper credit when referencing or quoting another source. (Corollary: Don’t copy and paste another student’s post and claim it as original as that is essentially plagiarism.) Be sure to read all messages in a thread before replying. Don’t repeat someone else’s post without adding something of your own to it. (See corollary above regarding reuse of someone else’s post.) Avoid short, generic replies such as, “I agree.” You should include why you agree or add to the previous point. The point of a discussion in an online course is to help you and your other students learn through in-depth consideration of important topics. Always be respectful of others’ opinions even when they differ from your own. When you disagree with someone, you should express your differing opinion in a respectful, non-critical way. (Corollary: Do not make personal or insulting remarks.) Be open-minded as that is one of the major points of participating in an open classroom discussion. EMAIL NETIQUETTE When you send an email to your instructor, teaching assistant, or classmates, you should: Use a clear and descriptive subject line as a way to give them a reason to open your email. Be brief. Don’t make the reader have to scroll to read the entire message. Put the most important part at the very beginning. They may not read it to the end. Avoid attachments unless you are sure your recipients can open them. This is especially important with many people using smart -phones and tablet PCs to view email. Sign your message with your name and return e-mail address. Make sure they know how to contact you back. Think before you send the e-mail to more than one person. Does everyone really need to see your message? (Corollary: Be sure you REALLY want everyone to receive your response when you click, “reply all”.) Similarly, be sure that the message author intended for the information to be passed along before you click the “forward” button. If you are sending an email while upset or angry, think about not sending it until you’ve cooled off. A 24-hour resting period is often a good idea. SECURITY Remember that your password is the only thing protecting you from pranks or more serious harm. Always follow University of Memphis campus guidelines with respect to password security. Keep it private and never share it with anyone. If you have questions, call the campus service desk at 901-678-8888. Change your password immediately if you think someone else might know it. (Call 901-678-8888 if you need help managing your password.) Always logout when you are finished using any secured system - especially if you are using a shared computer in a public place. Overall, you should use common sense when communicating electronically. In the same way that you would present yourself in person to make a positive and constructive impression you should always do the same when taking an online course. Remember that the majority of what we communicate to others is in non-verbal ways (body language, voice inflection, etc.) and all you have in online courses is in a text form. Make sure your digital impression is a clear and positive one. Students Students Future Students Current Students Complete Professional Program Undergraduate Student Services Office FCBE Academic Integrity FCBE Standards for Academic Integrity The Fogelman Student Code of Professionalism Netiquette Guide for Online Courses Understanding Plagiarism FCBE Internships FCBE Scholarships Student Organizations Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .