#http://www.memphis.edu/erc/about/
Research - ERC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Ecological Research Center About Facilities People Research Teaching Services Home ERC About History of the Ecological Research Center The Department of Biology established the Ecological Research Center (ERC) in 1973 to meet the need for information relating to ecology (locally and world-wide). The objective was to provide an academic unit within the University that would foster the institution's goal of discovery and dissemination of critical knowledge to the metropolitan community of Memphis, the people of Tennessee, the Mid-South region and the nation. Additionally, there was a desire to prepare diverse graduate and undergraduate student populations for successful careers in ecology and related fields and, in so doing, contribute to the global need for a workforce qualified to address the world's growing demand for ecological information. From the beginning, it was recognized that these goals could best be accomplished through the establishment of partnerships with city, state, federal, and private agencies. Such linkages have been strongly promoted and have been critical to the development of the ecology program at The University of Memphis . Ecological issues are complex and tightly associated with economic, political, and social issues. Therefore, diverse backgrounds and understandings are required to successfully resolve many ecological issues. More recently, the Center recognized the growing need for ecological information as it relates to increasing urban environments and addressing problematic issues in such areas. The Center therefore began establishment of a new Program in Urban Ecology, a multidisciplinary focus which will train a new breed of ecologists through graduate studies and internships. Urbanization (associated with human population growth) represents one of the most significant factors affecting the earth's ecosystem. Yet, such urban systems are relatively unstudied and represent the new frontier in ecology and related areas. Because ecological issues in the urban community are complex and tightly associated with economic, political, and social issues, diverse backgrounds and understandings are required to successfully resolve many ecological problems and develop conservation and management plans. Such complexity requires training beyond traditional backgrounds. At present, few programs exist to prepare a workforce for this arena. Additionally, only a few programs have been developed worldwide to conduct research in an attempt to meet the challenges of sustainable natural resources in urban ecosystems. Because the scope of topics is so broad, no other institution outside of academia encompasses a wide enough range of specialist to cover the territory associated with research and education at this level. Consequently, academic institutions must accept the challenges of the modern world in dealing with issues related to long-term sustainability of the earth's resources. Conservation and management of natural resources is best served through collaborative work (employing the highest level of modern technology) among individuals from many disciplines that share an interest in ecological issues. Therefore, The Ecological Research Center, through partnerships with state, federal and private agencies and organizations and support from the general public, proposes a visionary program that results in virtually a new breed of ecologist and an innovative approach to identifying ecological needs and developing research plans for solutions to problems and issues. As urbanization continues to increase (today approximately 80% of the American population resides in urban areas) and problematic issues shift from rural to urban arenas, urban universities are called upon to address society's needs in unique ways. Such needs can only be served through visionary programs. We propose such a focus in our Program in Urban Ecology, and believe our plan benefits the residents of Memphis, the Mid-South, and the global community by assessing issues that explore and improve the quality of life for everyone. Additionally, the program represents an opportunity for the University and associated groups to provide a model for others to follow worldwide as the new "Ecological Age" continues to develop. Program in Urban Ecology Learn more about the new frontier in science that focuses on the dynamic interactions among humans and the sustainability of ecological systems and natural resources. Links of Interest Resources related to ecological issues Contact the ERC Administrative offices contact information. Department of Biological Sciences The ERC is a part of the Department of Biological Sciences Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/24/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .