#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/about/directorsmessage.php
From the Director of Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections About the Institute About Us About Benjamin L. Hooks Director's Message Hooks Institute Staff Community Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee The Hooks Institute and You Job Opportunities Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks About the Institute From the Director of Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change Director's Message The Charleston Shootings, excessive use of police force, marginalized communities that face limited educational and economic opportunities: the list of inequities that various communities in our nation face goes on and on and on . . . The fact that this "list" is from the headlines of 2015, rather than 1960s or before, shows that issues of race and class continue to permeate American life. While it is undeniable that our nation made great strides in civil rights during the 1960s, this decade, and the memorable leaders it produced, could not remove vestiges of slavery and other inequalities woven into the fabric of our nation since its inception. This is where you and the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change come in. The question we must ask ourselves is, "what must we do, in this place, space, and time, to make our communities more just places for all people?" Providing meaningful, workable, and sustainable solutions to such questions requires hard work by our institutions and each of us. As described in the Hooks Institute's publication, A Collective Call for Action: Tackling Social Challenges in Memphis (2014), if the number of persons with Associate and Bachelor's degrees increased exponentially, the economic impact would be in the billions for Memphis and the State of Tennessee. This demonstrates that everyone has a stake in the success of others, especially minorities and the poor who are often marginalized and face limited opportunities. The mission of the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis (U of M) is teaching, studying, and promoting civil rights and social change. We maximize our resources to obtain meaningful impact in the communities we serve. Working with faculty members and students at the U of M, community leaders, and others, the Hooks Institute lecture series, conferences, publications, community programs, and documentaries help to create discussion and community engagement on issues that impact lives. Hooks Institute film productions like Duty of the Hour , a film on the life of Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks, and our upcoming film on civil and women's rights activist Ida B. Wells (1862-1931) chronicle how oppressive periods for African Americans and women in American history were slowly transformed through personal sacrifice and struggle of heroic individuals. Launched in spring 2015, The Hooks Institute's African American Male Initiative (HAAMI), focuses on mentoring and coaching African American males at the U of M to increase their retention and graduation rates. The failure to develop, thus benefit from, their talents results in immeasurable losses to the economic, cultural, and civic fiber of our communities. HAAMI seeks to stem these losses by cultivating this talent. The Hooks Institute continues to work with community partners to increase the swimming proficiency among minority youth: African American and Hispanic children have the highest drowning rates in the nation. Through publications, like the Hooks Institute's, A Call for Collective Action: Tackling Social Challenges in Memphis (2014), U of M faculty proposed policy changes to create positive educational, economic, and other outcomes for community members. Finally, the Hooks Institute and the Office of the Provost have been tasked by the president of the U of M to lead an initiative, called Critical Conversations. The goal of the Critical Conversations is to use the collective scholarship of the university to sustain and facilitate a democratic civil society that values diversity, civil rights, human rights, and nonviolent movements and initiatives. If we, as a nation are to move closer to the goal of ensuring life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness for all people, meaningful dialogue on effective and responsible policing in minority communities, gender equality, and removing racial, economic, and other disparities must take place among ourselves, in the halls of government, and in political, civic, and other forums. The Hooks Institute's mission of teaching, studying, and promoting civil rights and social change advances that goal. We encourage you to add your voice to these efforts. About the Institute About Us About Benjamin L. Hooks Director's Message Hooks Institute Staff Community Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee The Hooks Institute and You Job Opportunities Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .