#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11154
Assistant Professor of Management Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Assistant Professor of Management Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC420 Advertised Title Assistant Professor of Management Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number 007949 Category Full-Time Faculty Department Management Position Summary The Department of Management in the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics is seeking a tenure-track Assistant Professor in human resource management, effective fall semester 2016, pending available funding. Responsibilities include effectively teaching undergraduate and graduate courses, developing a stream of high-quality research, participating in activities of the Department, and fulfilling professional and university service responsibilities. The Department of Management is an academically diverse, research-oriented group of 18 full-time faculty members with specializations in organizational behavior, human resource management, strategy, international business, and business communication. The Department offers degree programs at all levels and is fully accredited by AACSB International. For more information, go to: Minimum Position Qualifications Candidates should have a Ph.D. with a concentration in management or a closely related area (advanced ABDs will be considered if degree completion is imminent), a record of effective college teaching and commitment to teaching excellence, and evidence of development of a strong research program targeting leading journals in the field. Applicants with research and teaching expertise in human resource management and/or organizational behavior with related interests in international management, organizational research methods, or multilevel research are highly desired for this position. Special Conditions Posting Date 10/06/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range Position offers competitive compensation, summer research support, and an attractive benefits program, depending on qualifications. Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Instructions to Applicant regarding references Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Cover Letter References List Unofficial Transcript Article Reprint 1 Optional Documents