#http://www.memphis.edu/honors/
Helen Hardin Honors Program - Helen Hardin Honors Progam - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Helen Hardin Honors Progam Admission Benefits Graduating Involvement Forms Courses News Home Helen Hardin Honors Progam Big ambitions require big opportunities. Welcome to the largest honors program in Tennessee Nowhere else in the state will top academic performers find a richer, more diverse experience than right here at the Helen Hardin Honors Program at the UofM. Memphis is the epicenter of culture, commerce and creativity. It's a city that has moved the world in more ways than one, and you, too, will be driven to do more. The Helen Hardin Honors Program has a wonderful reputation for attracting the brightest students. They come largely because of our extraordinary professors, small classes, and never-ending opportunities to do research in a variety of disciplines. Our students are award winners, having won the Truman, Goldwater, Fulbright, and Rotary scholarships in recent years, as well as major campus awards. And that is what the Helen Hardin Honors Program is about — providing intellectual challenge and opportunities for outstanding students. Our Namesake, Mrs. Helen Hardin Helen Hardin was passionate about the city of Memphis. She and her husband, Jabie Hardin, were also longtime supporters of the University of Memphis. Before her death at the age of 95, Helen Hardin gave a significant gift to the University for the benefit of honors students; in recognition of her generosity, the program was named the Helen Hardin Honors Program. In both life and death, Mrs. Hardin helped shape a better Memphis. As co-founder of wholesale food distributor Hardin's-Sysco, Mrs. Hardin was known for her entrepreneurial spirit, and she the perfect role model for honors students. The Hardin legacy lives on in this honors-only academic environment that encourages hard work, rigorous study and high expectations. Apply Online There are many advantages associated with membership in the Helen Hardin Honors Program. Opportunities Learn more about undergraduate research, Phi Kappa Phi Honors Society, Scholarships and Study Abroad. National Student Exchange Find out more about the unique opportunity to study at another NSE institution for up to a calendar year. Contact Us Follow Honors Online Twitter Facebook Driven by Doing "With the Honors Program I was able to meet like-minded individuals regardless of major through the Honors Student Council, advance my academic prospects with undergraduate research, show others the benefits of the program, and, not to mention, I've made life-long friends here." David LeVine Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .