#http://www.memphis.edu/benefits/info/tda.php
Tax Deferred Annuity &amp; Deferred Compensation Plan - University Benefits Administration - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Benefits Administration Staff Directory Benefits Information Related Resources &amp; Links Human Resources Benefits Information Prospective Employees New Faculty New Staff Current Employees Departing Employees Retiring Employees Home University Benefits Administration Benefits Information Tax Deferred Annuity &amp; Deferred Compensation Plan Tax Deferred Annuity &amp; Deferred Compensation Plan Contact Information Enrollment/Change Periods Eligibility Description of Plans Forms Contact Information Deferred Compensation (Traditional &amp; Roth 401(k) and 457) 1.800.922.7772 Home Page Investment Options Performance Forms 403(b) companies VOYA (formerly ING): Calvin Reid, 901.496.2741 TIAA-CREF : 800.842.2733 VALIC : Scot Brothers 901.755.9277 Enrollment/Change Periods You may enroll anytime. You can make contribution changes up to 4 times each calendar year. Eligibility All full and part-time employees (faculty and staff) Temporary staff and faculty are not eligible for the 401(k) state match Description of Plans The University of Memphis offers three long-term savings plans designed to supplement income after retirement. These plans are authorized under the following sections of the Internal Revenue Code. 403(b) - designed for educational and nonprofit institutions 401(k) Traditional and ROTH - designed as a deferred compensation plan 457- also designed as a deferred compensation plan Contributions Employees may contribute a specified amount to the plans through salary reduction. Amounts contributed do not affect retirement or social security. Except for the 401(k) ROTH, contributions and earnings of the plans are not subject to federal income tax until funds are withdrawn. Generally, withdrawals are not permitted before age 59 1/2 or retirement. Early withdrawals are subject to taxes and IRS regulation, and may be subject to a federal penalty. There is a minimum monthly contribution of $20. See table below for the annual maximum amounts that can tax deferred under these programs. Annual Maximum Contribution Amounts: 401(k) and 403(b) combination Less than age 50: $18,000 (2015) Age 50+: $24,000 (2015) 457 Less than age 50: $18,000 (2015) Age 50+: $24,000 (2015) 401(k) and 457 The 401(k) and 457 are administered by Great West. Each program offers the same investment options . With at least the minimum contribution in the 401(k), the State of TN will also contribute a match between $20 and $50 per month. There is not a match in the 457. 403(b) There is not a match in the 403(b). There are currently three companies that are available for investment in the 403(b). See above for a list of those companies. The University of Memphis makes no recommendations as to companies with which to do business. Forms State of TN Deferred Compensation Forms 403(b) participation agreement form * 403(b) termination form *Please contact the company for their specific enrollment form. This additional enrollment form must be completed before the 403(b) contribution can begin. Benefits Information Prospective Employees New Faculty New Staff Current Employees Departing Employees Retiring Employees Tiger Perks Exclusive discounts offered to UofM employees Affordable Care Act Important information related to the Affordable Care Act Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .