#http://www.memphis.edu/hr/pdf/7975epos.pdf
Employers Holding Federal Contracts orSubcontractsApplicants to and employees of companies with a Federal govern- ment contract or subcontract are protected under the following Federal authorities: RACE, COLOR, RELIGION, SEX, NATIONAL ORIGIN Executive Order 11246, as amended, prohibits job discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin, and requires affirma- tive action to ensure equality of opportunity in all aspects of employment. INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIESSection 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, prohibits job discrimination because of disability and requires affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities who, with reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of a job. VIETNAM ERA, SPECIALDISABLED, RECENTLY SEPARATED, AND OTHER PROTECTED VETERANS 38 U.S.C. 4212 of the Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, as amended, prohibits job discrimination and requires affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified Vietnam era veterans, qualified special disabled veterans, recently separarted veterans, and other protected veterans. Any person who believes a contractor has violated its nondiscrimination or affirmative action obligations under the authorities above should contact immediately:The Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP), Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210 or call (202) 693-0101, or an OFCCP regional or district office, listed in most telephone directories under U.S. Government, Department of Labor. Equal Employment Opportunity is THE LAW Private Employment, State and Local Governments, Educational InstitutionsApplicants to and employees of most private employers, state and local governments, educational institutions, employment agencies and labor organizations are protected under the following Federal laws: RACE, COLOR, RELIGION, SEX, NATIONAL ORIGINTitle VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, prohibits discrimination in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment, on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin. DISABILITYThe Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, protects qualified applicants and employees with disabilities from discrim- ination in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, job training, fringe benefits, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment on the basis of disability. The law also requires that covered entities provide qualified applicants and employees with disabilities with reasonable accommodations that do not impose undue hardship. AGE The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, protects applicants and employees 40 years of age or older from discrimination on the basis of age in hiring, promotion, discharge, compensation, terms, conditions or privileges of employment. SEX (WAGES) In addition to sex discrimination prohibited by Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended (see above), the Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended, prohibits sex discrimination in payment of wages to women and men performing substantially equal work in the same establishment.Retaliation against a person who files a charge of discrimination,participates in an investigation, or opposes an unlawful employment practice is prohibited by all of these Federal laws. If you believe that you have been discriminated against under any of the above laws, you should contact immediately: The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), 1801 L Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20507 or an EEOC field office by calling toll free (800) 669-4000. For individuals with hearing impairments, EEOC’s toll free TDD number is (800) 669-6820. Programs orActivities Receiving Federal FinancialAssistanceRACE, COLOR, RELIGION, NATIONAL ORIGIN, SEX In addition to the protection of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin in programs or activities receiving Federal financial assistance. Employ- ment discrimination is covered by Title VI if the primary objective of the financial assistance is provision of employment, or where employment discrimination causes or may cause discrimination in providing services under such pro- grams. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of sex in educational programs or activities which receive Federal assistance. INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIESSections 501, 504 and 505 of theRehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of disabil-ity in any program or activity which receives Federal financial assistance in the federal government. Discrimina- tion is prohibited in all aspects of employment against persons with disabilities who, with reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of a job. If you believe you have been discriminated against in a program of any institution which receives Federal assistance, you should contact immediately the Federal agencyproviding such assistance.