#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/about/staff.php
Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change Staff - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections About the Institute About Us About Benjamin L. Hooks Director's Message Hooks Institute Staff Community Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee The Hooks Institute and You Job Opportunities Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks About the Institute Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change Staff Hooks Institute Staff Daphene R. McFerren, Director Daphene R. McFerren is the director of the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change. McFerren manages the Institute's strategic planning; program creation and implementation; local and national fundraising efforts; and work on behalf of the Hooks Institute staff, faculty, and contractors. McFerren is responsible for creating budgets for Hooks Institute programs and monitoring program expenses to ensure that financial targets are met. She is the primary media contact for the Institute and has made numerous television and radio appearances to promote its work. Under her leadership the Institute has increased its focus on innovative ways to promote civil discourse on civil and human rights, and on implementation of impactful community service programs. As director of the Hooks Institute, McFerren has chaired national conferences on civil and human rights issues. Under McFerren's leadership the Institute has created websites on civil rights featuring state-of-the-art technology. McFerren was the executive producer of the film Duty of the Hour , a film on the life of Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks. She is also the executive producer, director, and narrator of the award-winning documentary short, The Civil Rights Movement: A Cultural Revolution , winner of the Silver and Bronze Annual Telly Awards (36th Annual Competition, 2015); The People's Telly (2015) and The Best Shorts Competition (Award of Merit, 2015). McFerren is a 1995 National Endowment for the Humanities Summer Research Award recipient. Prior to joining the Hooks Institute, McFerren litigated complex civil litigation matters in private practice and with the U.S. Department of Justice. She is also a former federal prosecutor and secured convictions in human trafficking cases of national and international interest. From 1999 to 2001, McFerren served as counsel to the Honorable Janet Reno, Attorney General of the United States. M. Elena Delavega, Associate Director Elena Delavega, PhD, MSW is Assistant Professor of Social Work at the University of Memphis, where she teaches Social Welfare Policy, Advanced Community Practice, and Poverty. Her research is complex and multifaceted and consists of three broad areas: understanding poverty, social and economic exclusion, and promoting social and economic development. Within the broad areas, she has developed a number of projects that contribute to the overall goal of understanding, addressing, and eliminating poverty and all forms of exclusion. Additionally, she created the Memphis Poverty Fact Sheet, updated every year, which has been cited extensively in local and national media. Through her research, Dr. Delavega has developed a profound understanding of Memphis, its population, and its problems (including racial differentials and the intersection of gender, class, and race), as well experience in grant-funded project management from development and implementation to evaluation and the dissemination of findings. Rorie Trammel, Assistant Director Rorie Trammel is the assistant director of the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change. She started working at the Institute first as a volunteer in 2014, playing an integral role in grant writing, fundraising, and donor outreach. She earned her Bachelor's and Master's degrees from the University of Memphis. She is also a former U of M employee, having worked in the Office of Development for 14 years. Following her employment at the university, Rorie worked for the YMCA of Memphis &amp; the Mid-South for 14 1/2 years, first as executive director of urban programming and later as vice president for advancement. Rorie is a member of the New Memphis Institute and volunteers as a radio reader for WYPL, the radio station at the Benjamin L. Hooks central library. She has served on boards of directors for Partners in Public Education (PIPE), the Association of Fundraising Professionals, and the Shelby Park Farms Conservancy. Joy Tiffin Sutherland, Administrative Coordinator Joy Tiffin Sutherland came to the Institute in 2015 after serving as public relations manager for UT Medical Group, a physician practice affiliated with the College of Medicine at the University of Tennessee Health Science Center. She previously directed communications for Tennessee's Medicare peer review organization and served as a legislative assistant and field representative for a U.S. congressman and senator. Joy earned a BA in political science at Lambuth College (now the University of Memphis at Lambuth) and an MA in journalism at the University of Mississippi. A native Memphian, she is a founding board member of the Church Health Center and a 2001 graduate of Leadership Collierville. Nathaniel Ball, Me dia Coordinator Nathaniel Ball began working at the Institute in August of 2013. Nathan assisted Daphene McFerren with the production of the Hooks Institute's Documentary A Cultural Revolution , completed in the spring of 2014. Nathan received his bachelor's degree in Film and Video Production from the University of Memphis in 2011. He earned his MA in History in the spring of 2015. In June 2015 Ball joined the Institute staff to assist in grant writing, documentary film production, and other media projects. William C. Love, Library Assistant William C. Love has joined the staff of the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change and the University of Memphis Libraries to digitize the late Dr. Hooks' archive of historic civil rights photographs, audio and printed materials. Love has extensive experience in curating historical collections and most recently served as an graduate student processing assistant at Emory University's Manuscript, Archives and Rare Book Library. He earned a master's degree in history from the University of Memphis and a master's degree in theological studies from the Candler School of Theology at Emory University. He is currently a PhD candidate in the Emory University Graduate Division of Religion. Gregory Washington, Hooks African American Male Initiative (HAAMI) Coordinator Gregory Washington, PhD, LCSW is currently an Associate Professor in the Department of Social Work at the University of Memphis and Director of the Center for the Advancement and Youth Development (CAYD). He also is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW) that works as a clinical consultant and has practiced as an individual, family and group therapist in Illinois, Georgia, Arkansas, and Tennessee. His research interests include culturally centered empowerment methods and the risk and protective factors associated with youth development. A major goal of his work is to identify and promote the use of innovative culturally centered group interventions that reduce risk for disparities in behavioral health and incarceration outcomes among young people of color. Dr. Washington has publisheded several peer reviewed journal articles, co-authored books and spoken at professional meetings nationally and internationally. Graduate Assistants Melissa Haickel Bagaglio Melissa Haickel Bagaglio began working with the Institute in July, 2015. She graduated from The University of Evansville with a B.S. in Environmental Administration and Political Science in May of 1998. She earned her M.A. in English from the University of Memphis in May of 2013 and is currently pursuing her PhD in English at UofM. Her research interests include Early Modern English literature and the question of sovereignty therein. Alona Gray Alona Gray began working with the Institute in August, 2015. She graduated from The University of Memphis with a Bachelor's Degree in Psychology May of 2014. She is currently pursuing a Masters of Social Work Degree at the University of Memphis. Gray is helping the Hooks Institute with a variety of projects, namely the Hooks African American Male Initiative. Errol Rivers Errol Rivers began working with the Institute in August, 2015 through his graduate assistantship with Dr. Loel Kim in the English department. Rivers is pursuing his PhD in English with a concentration in professional writing at the University of Memphis beginning Fall 2015. Rivers is assisting the Hooks Institute on several projects including the Fayette County Tent City website. About the Institute About Us About Benjamin L. Hooks Director's Message Hooks Institute Staff Community Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee The Hooks Institute and You Job Opportunities Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .