#http://www.memphis.edu/accountancy/admissions/scholarships.php
School of Accountancy Scholarships - ACCT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - School of Accountancy Welcome Programs Admissions Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Publications FCBE Admissions Welcome Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Admissions Getting Started Financial Assistance Application Form Networking &amp; Career Development Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Courses Offered Undergraduate Graduate Course Syllabi Publications Contact Us Home ACCT Admissions School of Accountancy Scholarships School of Accountancy Scholarships The Fogelman College of Business and Economics School of Accountancy provides several scholarships in addition to those available through the University and through the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. All current accounting scholarships require: Full-time status for every semester awarded. A minimum 3.25 with preference to students above a 3.50 cumulative average. Scholarship payments are made to current accounting majors only. Amounts of awards vary depending on recent market performance of endowments, so amounts listed are estimates only . UNDERGRADUATE Kimmelman Scholars Program Fund - Preference goes to incoming freshman with excellent scholarship records. This is a competitive program. Once accepted in the program, the student continues to receive the scholarship as long as a 3.25 cumulative grade point average is maintained, the student continues to be an accounting major, and the student fulfills all requirements of the Kimmelman Program. Approximate award - $2,500 per semester. Watkins Uiberall Accounting Scholarship - Competitive, excellent scholarship record. Preference given to financial need. Annual. Approximate award - $830 each semester. James F. Link Scholarship - Competitive, excellent scholarship record. Preference given to financial need, single parents. Annual. Approximate award varies. UNDERGRADUATE or GRADUATE Stacey Steckle Sprinkle Memorial Scholarship - Competitive, excellent scholarship record. Annual. Approximate award - $800 each semester. Thomas Yates Owen Scholarship - Competitive, excellent scholarship record. Annual. Approximate award - $1,240 each semester. Charles W. Griesbeck Scholarship - Competitive, excellent scholarship record. Junior or above. Annual. Two awarded each year. One stipulated for a tax major. Approximate award - $725 each semester. Balton &amp; Assoc. Scholarship - Competitive, excellent scholarship record. Annual. Approximate award - $1,035 each semester. Keystone Laboratories Scholarship - Competitive, excellent scholarship record. Annual. Preference to African-American. Approximate award - $925 each semester. GRADUATE Watkins Uiberall Accounting Scholarship - Competitive, excellent scholarship record. Preference given to financial need. Annual. Approximate award - $830 each semester. R.B. Sweeney Graduate Scholarship - Competitive, excellent scholarship record. Annual. Approximate award - $500 each semester. Professor Jesse Spiceland Endowed Graduate Scholarship - Competitive, excellent scholarship record. Potential or recent graduate enrollment. Annual. Approximate award - $700 each semester. Dr. Gabriel P. Racz Scholarship - Competitive, excellent scholarship record. Annual. Preference goes to BAP President or other officer. Approximate award - $500 each semester. Kenneth and Janet Austin Accounting Fellowship Scholarship - Competitive, excellent scholarship record. Annual. Preference given to PhD student. Approximate award - $700 each semester. To apply for the School of Accountancy scholarships, you must use the Tiger Scholarship Manager portal. Tiger Scholarship Manager provides a centralized, searchable database of all scholarship opportunities. This technology improves the process of matching students to the financial resources they need to make their educational dreams a reality. The application process will reopen during the Fall 2014 for the 2015-2016 academic year. You will log into your myMemphis portal to apply, and directions are provided here . In addition to the Tiger Scholarship application, you MUST turn in an unofficial transcript along with this summary sheet to FAB 200 (School of Accountancy office) by the due date listed in the Tiger Scholarship portal: School of Accountancy Scholarship Application. Admissions Welcome Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Admissions Getting Started Financial Assistance Application Form Networking &amp; Career Development Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Courses Offered Undergraduate Graduate Course Syllabi Publications Contact Us Networking &amp; Career Development Learn more about two important keys to career success! Financial Assistance Looking for financial assistance? Try looking here first! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .