#https://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/11079
Instructor of Marketing Skip to Main Content Home Search Jobs Create Account Log In Help UNIVERSITY BENEFITS EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ANNUAL SECURITY REPORT CAMPUS MAP MISSION, VISION &amp; VALUES ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ABOUT UofM LIVING IN MEMPHIS Instructor of Marketing Below you will find the details for the position including any supplementary documentation and questions you should review before applying for the opening. To apply for the position, please click the Apply for this Job link/button. If you would like to bookmark this position for later review, click on the Bookmark link. To email this position to a friend, click on the Email to a Friend link. If you would like to print a copy of this position for your records, click on the Print Preview link. Bookmark this Job | Print Preview | Apply for this Job Posting Details Posting Information Posting Number FAECC418 Advertised Title Instructor of Marketing Campus Location Main Campus (Memphis, TN) Position Number L16680 Category Full-Time Faculty Department Marketing Supply Management Position Summary The Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management in the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics is seeking qualified applicants for a faculty position beginning spring semester (January) 2016. This is a nine-month, non-tenure-track appointment. Hiring is contingent on final budget approval. Responsibilities include effectively delivering course instruction in social media practice and analytics as well as other areas of marketing, supporting the social media marketing minor, coordinating social media efforts for the department, overseeing social media internships, participating in relevant departmental activities, and complying with all College and University regulations. Instructors typically teach four courses per semester. Minimum Position Qualifications A Ph.D. in marketing with emphasis in advertising, e-commerce, mass communications or a related area is strongly desired. Minimum education requirement is an appropriate master’s degree. Relevant experience in social media required. College teaching experience highly desired. Special Conditions Posting Date 09/24/2015 Closing Date Open Until Filled Yes Hiring Range Position offers competitive salary and attractive benefits package, depending on qualifications. Full-Time/Part-Time Full-Time: Benefits Eligible Special Instructions to Applicants Instructions to Applicant regarding references Is this posting for UofM employees only? No Supplemental Questions Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*). Applicant Documents Required Documents Curriculum Vitae Cover Letter References List Unofficial Transcript Optional Documents