#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/events/events2010.php
Events 2010 - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Archives 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Events Events 2010 Hooks Calendar of Events: 2010 DECEMBER 2010 December 1 Deadline for nominations for Benjamin L. Hooks Institute Book Award Winner receives $1,000 and will deliver an on-campus address. This award will go to the book published in 2010 that best furthers understanding of the American Civil Rights Movement and its legacy. NOVEMBER 2010 November 11 Scholars in Critical Race Studies Meeting Readings and Discussion of the text by Graduate Association of African American History (GAAAH) Conference Keynote Speaker Leon Litwack, PhD, History, Professor Emeritus, UC Berkeley: How Free is Free?: The Long Death of Jim Crow University of Memphis, University Center 308, 12:00pm-2:00pm. Dr. Litwack will deliver the keynote address at 6:00 p.m. at the University Center Ballroom, University of Memphis campus. OCTOBER 2010 October 28 Hooks Institute Staff Lunch Meeting with the officers of U of M Registered Student Organizations. October 14 Hooks Institute Scholars in Critical Race Studies Meeting Viewing of play: Joe Turner's Come and Gone by August Wilson The Hattiloo Theatre, Memphis, TN, 7:30pm SEPTEMBER 2010 September 14 Memorial Tribute to the Late Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks and The Hooks Institute's Annual Open House University of Memphis, Michael D. Rose Theatre, 5:30pm September 1 Scholars in Critical Race Studies Meeting Viewing of Franz Fanon Film University of Memphis, University Center Room 304, 6:00pm - 8:00pm JUNE 2010 June 28 "Legacies of Great Problem Solvers: Dr. Hooks and West Tennessee Civil Rights Activists." Lecture by Daphene R. McFerren, Hooks Director. African American Summer Institute sponsored by Memphis City Schools Hollis F. Price Library, LeMoyne-Owen College, Memphis, TN, 10:00am June 23 "Legacies of Great Problem Solvers: Dr. Hooks and West Tennessee Civil Rights Activists." Lecture by Daphene R. McFerren, Hooks Director African American Summer Institute sponsored by Memphis City Schools University of Memphis, Patterson Hall, 10:00am APRIL 2010 April 8-9 Education as a Civil Right and Economic Driver Annual Conference held by the Hooks Institute The Keynote Address will be conducted by Steve Perry, founder of the Capital Preparatory Magnet School in Hartford, CT, contributor to Essence Magazine, and featured on CNN's Black in America . April 7 Daphene R. McFerren, Hooks Director, interviews with Good Morning Memphis regarding the Hooks Institute's 2010 Conference, Education as a Civil Right and Economic Driver: Empowering Individuals for the 21st Century and Beyond , April 8-9, 2010 FOX 13 News at 9:00am April 4 Daphene R. McFerren, Hooks Director, interviews with Ben Watson, Reporter, regarding the Hooks Institute's 2010 Conference: Education as a Civil Right and Economic Driver: Empowering Individuals for the 21st Century and Beyond , April 8-9, 2010 WMC-TV 5 at 9:00am MARCH 2010 March 3 Luncheon with Tennessee State Legislators to Introduce the Hooks Institute's Conference, Education as a Civil Right and Economic Driver , April 8-9, 2010 State Capitol, Nashville, TN FEBRUARY 2010 February 24 "The Lessons of Overcoming Katrina: Implications for the Future of New Orleans" D'Ann Penner, PhD, Winner of the 2009 Congressional Black Caucus Health Braintrust Leadership in Journalism Award for Overcoming Katrina: African American Voices from the Crescent City and Beyond, co-authored with Keith C. Ferdinand and featuring a foreword by Jimmy Carter Judiciary Committee Hearing Room, 2237 Rayburn House Office Building, 2nd Floor United States Capitol, Washington, DC February 17 Overcoming: The Hidden History of Katrina's Fury and of Our Future D'Ann Penner, PhD, Winner of the 2009 Congressional Black Caucus Health Braintrust Leadership in Journalism Award for Overcoming Katrina: African American Voices from the Crescent City and Beyond, co-authored with Keith C. Ferdinand and featuring a foreword by Jimmy Carter University of Memphis, Michael D. Rose Theatre, 7:00pm February 11 "Black, Jews, Civil Rights: Conflict and Communion" Lecture by Eric Sundquist, Foundation Professor of Literature at UCLA University of Memphis, 7:00 pm Sponsored by the Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities at the University of Memphis. Hooks Institute, Co-Sponsor JANUARY 2010 January 15 "A Legacy That Lives" Daphene R. McFerren, Hooks Institute, Keynote Speaker, and Ken Reardon, PhD, Director of Graduate Program in City &amp; Regional Planning at the University of Memphis 28th Anniversary of the Mid-South Peace &amp; Justice Center at Bridges, Memphis TN, 6:00pm Archives 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .