#http://www.memphis.edu/ce/docs/juan_junqueira.pdf
I. INTRODUCTION The Brazil Scientific Mobility Program - BSMP is an exchange program of the Brazilian government , administrated by the Institute of International Education • IIE in the United States of America. This program aims to send Brazilian undergrad students to severa l countries around the world , and I am one of thousands of students contemplated with an opportunity in the USA. Currently , I am a Bachelor Student at FEPI • Academic Center of Itajubá in Brazil , and since I came to the USA, in August 2014, I have studied at the University of New Mexico where I took an intensive English course in the fall of 2014 that allowed me to apply for the university in the spring of 2015 . Also, as part of the BSMP , I should get either a Summer Internship or Summer Rese arch, and at this point the University of Memphis began to be part of my studies abroad experience . I would like to be a Research Assistant in some project regarded to sustainability and structure , and through the professor Dr. Adel Abdelnaby the Civil Eng ineer Department granted me this opportunity. II. T HE R ESEARCH T he project consists in building a real scale wood frame shear wall using the state - of - the - art testing facility at the Structural Laboratory at the University of Memphis as showed in the following figure s . Figure 1 - Drawing Model Figure 2 - Wood Wall Material It will be subject ed to loads, simulating ground motion, and then the wall response will be compare to the analytical model which ha s been developed by Sean Pezeshk, who is concluding his Ma ster†s Degree in Civil Engineering . My duties were reading articles , presenting reports , making presentations , assisting Sean in organizing the laboratory, preparing th e space necessary to assemble the wood frame shear wall and set ting up all necessary equipment that shall be used both for loading as collect ing the resulting data. 2015 Summer Research Experience at the University of Memphis Junqueira, P. J, Undergrad Research Assistant at the Civil Engineering Department III. C ONCLUSION Since the final experiments were delayed, I will not be able to watch them, but in the time I worked in this project I could have a better idea of a research project , and mainly , how complex a master thesis can be. Furthermore, I cou ld be in a research environment in touch with new equipment and methods. In my major , in Brazil , there is no courses related to analysis of structures subjected to earthquake simulations , so all the issues included in this project were new for me which was a good opportunity to expand my knowledge in Civil Engineering. Beyond my academic experi ence, I had the wonderful experience of living in Memphis , a city I always had the desire of living in . I met new people, new cultures, made new friends, knew new places and improved my English , what I have most sought in that period . For me , an international student, making some contacts at the university can represent a good chance for futures studies as master†s degree and so on. In sum, without any doubt, one of the best experience s I have had in the USA. A CKNOWLEDGMENT I am glad I had this opportunity to work as research assistant at the Civil Engineering Department at the University of Memphis. I would like to thank Dr. Adel Abdelnaby for helping me in many ways and being my advisor here. A lso , Dr. Charles Camp, Dr. Shahram Pezeshk , and Sean Pezeshk for their ass istance in my Academic Training , and all the people that somehow were part of my life here. Juan P. Junqueira , Bachelor Student in Civil Engineering at FEPI • Academic Center of Itajubá, MG Brazil; g rantee student at the Brazil S cientific Mobility Program studying Civil Engineer at the University of New Mexico; research assistant at the Civil Engineering Department at the University of Memphis (s ummer 2015 ). juanperezjunqueira@hotmail.com junqueira@unm.edu Cellphone: +1 (505) 289 - 7232 My address in Brazil : Rua Gean Antônio Sallum, 20 Apt 201C Cristina, MG Brasil . 37476 - 000