#http://www.memphis.edu/cjustice/internships/
Criminology and Criminal Justice - Criminal Justice - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Internships People Internship Resources For Agencies Request an Intern Mid-term Agency Evaluation(during 3rd or 4th week) Internship Agency Evaluation (at the end of the placement) For Students Request an Internship (Coming Soon!) Internship Application (Coming Soon!) Self-Evaluation of Placement NSF Research Positions at UAB Home Criminal Justice Internships Undergraduate Internship Information Internship Objectives To assist interns in identifying and strengthening their career-related skills while contributing to the sponsoring agency; To assist interns in clarifying their career option and developing skills and experience to facilitate employment opportunities; To provide opportunities for interns to relate academic and theoretical knowledge to job-related skills and experiences; To facilitate communication and networking between the University of Memphis and the community; To provide university resources to community agencies; To assist in curriculum development and program evaluation. Placement Agency Responsibilities In order to maximize opportunities for placement success, agency intern coordinators should: Meet with the intern early in the semester to establish a mutually agreeable work schedule that will allow the student to complete the required 120 hours. Orient the intern to the agency's specific policies and procedures regarding dress, hours of operation, telephone protocols, and other workplace norms. Remain cognizant that interns are prohibited from being placed in dangerous situations, participating in undercover activities, and transporting clients in their personal or agency vehicle. Provide the intern with the necessary resources and instructions to perform relevant agency tasks appropriate for a BA student's level of expertise. Monitor the intern and provide constructive feedback on their performance. Notify the Undergraduate Internship Coordinator if there are any problems or concerns with your intern by e-mail or by telephone at (901) 678-2737. Complete the on-line Mid-term Agency Evaluation . It is recommended to do this during the third or fourth week of the internship but it can be done sooner or later. The evaluation can be done multiple times if needed. Complete the Internship Agency Evaluation at the end of the internship period. Internship Resources For Agencies Request an Intern Mid-term Agency Evaluation(during 3rd or 4th week) Internship Agency Evaluation (at the end of the placement) For Students Request an Internship (Coming Soon!) Internship Application (Coming Soon!) Self-Evaluation of Placement NSF Research Positions at UAB Criminal Justice Student Association All majors and minors studying criminology and criminal justice at the UofM are eligible to become members of the CJSA. News &amp; Events Find out what's happening and how you can be involved! Contact Us Main office and location information SUAPP The Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice is a part of the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .