#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/services/development.php
Student Development - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Services to Students Student Development Student Development The University of Memphis knows that academic and career success are inextricably tied to the student's welfare and effectiveness in intellectual, personal, social, emotional, physical, spiritual, financial, and family arenas. Students will find numerous programs and services within Student Development to acquire and enhance a range of skills vital to their success. Some opportunities include wellness education and health care, personal counseling and stress management training, career exploration and development, internship and job search support, tutoring and academic skills development, accessibility services, leadership skills coaching, interpersonal effectiveness training, and referral services. Student Development believes in partnerships with departments across the campus to address the comprehensive needs of students. Career Counseling Career Counseling, 211 Wilder Tower, affords students an opportunity to explore self, career options, obtain information relating academic majors to career choices, evaluate employment outlook information, and develop realistic career goals. Through counseling, computer assistance and testing, each person is given the opportunity to make a well-considered career choice. Career Services Career Services, 400 Wilder Tower, focuses on "Educating, Engaging, and Empowering the University of Memphis community. Career Services works with students during all phases of the career development process. Services include assessments, career planning, resume critiquing, mock interviewing, on-campus interviewing, and internship and job search preparation. Career Services offers numerous resources that assists students with their professional development and career needs. Individual advising is available to students needing assistance with resume writing, cover letters, and job and internship searches. Class and student organization presentations are offered throughout the fall and spring semesters on career-related topics such as Resumés, Interviews, Dress for Success, Negotiation Job/Salary Offers, and Proper Etiquette. All services are offered free of charge. For purposes of interviewing, registration for services through eRecruiting is required and it is recommended that seniors and graduate students register three semesters prior to graduation. Career Services is open Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Psychological Counseling The Psychological Counseling, room 214 Wilder Tower, provides students with the opportunity to discuss and explore any concerns and feelings that are of importance to them. Problems in relationships, feelings of loneliness or inadequacy, family or marriage difficulties, depression, the inability to concentrate or study, or simply "feeling the need to talk things out" are all examples of concerns that are dealt with through psychological counseling. The staff is professionally trained and experienced in working with a wide variety of student concerns through individual and group counseling, testing, programs and workshops, and referral to additional service centers on and off campus. The counselors subscribe to the confidentiality policy in the ethics and guidelines established by the American Psychological Association. Disability Resources for Students Disability Resources for Students, 110 Wilder Tower, provides information and support services that enable students with disabilities to take full advantage of the educational opportunities at the University of Memphis. Specific services are determined individually and are based on functional limitations caused by disability. Services include pre-enrollment planning; specialized orientation; early registration; adapted campus housing; academic aids such as readers, note takers, and interpreters; test accommodations; alternate format text and print materials; assistive computer technology and other special aids; assistance arranging classroom accommodations; supportive guidance and counseling; and liaison with state rehabilitation agencies. Some services require advance notice to arrange. All persons who have a disability are encouraged to register with Disability Resources for Students and to provide this office with medical documentation of the functional limitations related to their disability. This registration entitles qualified students with disabilities to the legal rights provided under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Given adequate time, experienced staff will provide assistance in evaluating individual needs and in developing a plan for appropriate disability services. For more information, please contact Disability Resources for Students, 901/678-2880. Student Health Services Student Health Services, 3770 DeSoto Avenue, is open Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, 8:00a.m.- 4:30p.m. and Tuesday 9:00a.m. - 4:30pm. The facility is closed evenings, weekends, holidays, and announced University Holidays. Early evening hours may be available Monday through Thursday, 4:30-6:00 during the Fall and Spring semesters. Medical services are available to students, faculty, and staff members on a walk-in basis. Each visit to Student Health Services requires the individual to present a valid University of Memphis identification card before treatment is provided. Student Health Services is staffed with a physician, nurse practitioners, nurses, laboratory and X-ray technologist, health educator, and various administrative support personnel. Student Health Services' major emphasis is on the diagnosis and treatment of short-term, acute medical illnesses on an outpatient basis. One's family doctor should continue to be the primary source for medical care. A Family Planning Clinic is provided by the Shelby County Public Health Department at Student Health Services on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. The Family Planning Clinic schedules appointments and provides birth control information, devices, medications, and examinations (by appointment). Health Center visits, along with in-house laboratory analyses ordered by the provider, are free of charge for students. The patient will be asked to pay for laboratory tests sent to an outside laboratory for analyses. Payment may be made by cash, check, MasterCard, Visa, Discover, American Express credit card, or Tiger Fund$. When in-depth evaluation or treatment is needed the patient is referred off-campus, and the patient is responsible for all charges incurred at that facility. Family Planning Clinic charges fees are on a sliding fee scale and payment is made directly to the Family Planning Clinic. The Tennessee Board of Regents has authorized a private insurance company to provide health insurance for students. Students may pick up a brochure about the insurance from Student Health Services. The student pays the insurance company directly for the policy. Student Success Program Student Success Program, 405 Mitchell Hall, includes two U.S. Department of Education-funded TRiO programs and a Suder Foundation-funded First Scholars that provide free academic, career, financial, personal, social, and technological assistance and support to eligible college students. The program helps eligible participants adjust to college life, achieve academic success, graduate, and move on to become contributing members of society. Students who are eligible to participate in the TRiO Excel program are first generation college students, students with disabilities, and/or students who are Pell Grant eligible. TRiO STEM participation requires the same eligibility, plus a declared major in a science, technology, engineering, or mathematics field. First generation students entering the university as full-time, residential freshmen are eligible for the First Scholars Program, which includes a $5,000 scholarship renewable up to four years. Tutoring @ ESP (Educational Support Program) The Educational Support Program (ESP), 217 Mitchell Hall, provides free tutoring on a walk-in basis through 10 Learning Centers: Academic Enhancement (General Education courses, study, reading, test-taking strategies), English (writing across the curriculum), Mathematics (math for all courses), Business (all courses in those majors), Science (all science courses), Millington Satellite Campus (Spanish, Math, Writing, Criminal Justice), Carrier Center Satellite Campus (Math, Spanish, Writing, Anthropology, History), Richardson Towers (Science, Math, Writing, Philosophy, Economics, Engineering, Spanish), Living Learning Complex (Science, Math, Writing, Psychology, Spanish), and Park Avenue (Science and Math). ESP also offers Supplemental Instruction for historically difficult classes. Students must be enrolled in the course at U of M for which the tutoring is requested. Tutors are available for both individual and group study sessions. Seminars are regularly presented and can be scheduled for classes and organizations. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .