#http://www.memphis.edu/music/fac-staff/bios/breslin-c.php
Cathal Breslin - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Faculty and Staff Alphabetical Applied Music Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Class Piano Composition and Theory Conducting Jazz Music Education Music History Music Industry Home Music Faculty and Staff Cathal Breslin Cathal Breslin (D.M.A.) Piano and Collaborative Piano Phone (901) 678-1447 Email cbreslin@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-3096 Office MU 283 Office Hours Contact Dr. Breslin for appointments About Cathal Breslin Dr. Cathal Breslin has been praised worldwide as one of the most exciting pianists of his generation, with critical acclaim such as "superb intensity and passion" (Cleveland Plain Dealer), "energized and energizing" (Belfast Telegraph), "a deep connection to the music" (Tampa Oracle), and "noble poetry" (The Independent, London). Born in Derry, Northern Ireland, he has performed in the world's major concert halls throughout Europe, U.S.A. and Asia. Highlights in recent Seasons have included Carnegie Hall Recitals in New York City, Wigmore Hall in London, National Concert Hall in Dublin, Beijing National Center for the Performing Arts and Tianjin Grand Theater in China. Recent solo recitals have been throughout the United States and Canada, Hong Kong, China, Korea and Japan, Spain, Italy, Greece, Germany, Austria, Bulgaria, Poland and Portugal, U.K. and Ireland. Concerto performances of Mozart, Beethoven, Liszt, Tchaikovsky, Rachmaninov, Prokofiev, Shostakovich, and Takemitsu have been with the Turin Philharmonic, National Symphony Orchestra of Ireland, BBC Ulster Orchestra, Camerata Ireland, and the RTE Concert Orchestra. As a chamber musician, Dr. Breslin performs as a member of Trio Festivale, and in duo recitals with violinists Augustin Dumay, Anne Akiko Meyers, Dmitry Sitkovetsky, Kirill Troussov, cellists Jan Vogler, Raphael Wallfisch, Jeffrey Zeigler, oboist Nicholas Daniel, flutists Sabrina Hu and Richard Sherman. He has also performed with the Brodsky Quartet, Ceruti Quartet, Coull Quartet, Fitzwilliam Quartet, and the Houston Symphony Winds. He has been a prizewinner at the Viotti International Piano Competition in Vercelli, Italy, "Carlet" in Valencia, "Grand Konzerteum" in Greece, "Iowa" in the U.S., and the Dublin International Piano Competition. Regular radio Broadcasts have included BBC Radio 3, RTE and Radio Ulster, RTVE Spain, and has performed on Japanese, Chinese, Hong Kong, and Irish Television many times. His Mozart and Takemitsu recordings for the international EBU network have been broadcast in over 30 countries worldwide, including NPR, BBC, and ABC. Dr. Breslin studied at the Royal College of Music in London with John Barstow, Royal Northern College of Music in Manchester with Kathryn Stott, Alexander Melnikov, and Benjamin Frith, and at the Real Conservatorio Superior de Musica in Madrid with Joaquin Soriano. As a Fulbright Scholar to the U.S., he received a DMA Degree from the University of Michigan, studying with Arthur Greene. As an Artistic Director, Dr. Breslin and his wife Dr. Sabrina Hu created the Walled City Music Festival in Derry, Northern Ireland, with the aim of creating a brighter future for young musicians in the troubled region. Now entering its 8th year, it has become one of the most prestigious Arts organizations in Europe, with recent Artists such as the Kronos Quartet, Sir James Galway, Anne Akiko Meyers and many more. Cathal Breslin is currently Assistant Professor of Piano and the Coordinator of the Piano Area at the University of Memphis. In addition to his position as Professor, he has taught master classes as a Guest Artist at Universities and Conservatories in the U.S., Canada, China, Hong Kong, Korea, Portugal, Bulgaria, U.K. and Ireland. Faculty and Staff Alphabetical Applied Music Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Class Piano Composition and Theory Conducting Jazz Music Education Music History Music Industry Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .