#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/about/advisory-board.php
Advisory Board - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections About the Institute About Us About Benjamin L. Hooks Director's Message Hooks Institute Staff Community Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee The Hooks Institute and You Job Opportunities Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks About the Institute Advisory Board Community Advisory Board The National and Local Advisory Boards were named in May 2009 to assist the University of Memphis and the Hooks Institute in the strategic development of the Hooks Institute's mission and to promote the work of the Hooks Institute throughout various communities. The National and Local Advisory Boards are composed of accomplished individuals including, attorneys, corporate officials, the clergy, civil rights, and community activists. Members of this board are as follows: Hooks Institute Advisory Board Officers Logan Meeks, Chair Logan Meeks is a Partner and Vice President of Operations at A2H, Inc. – the leading Architectural, Engineering, and Planning firm in the Mid-South region and serves on the Executive Committee of the firm as a Partner. In addition to his service on the Hooks Institute Board of Advisors, Meeks serves as a board member for the Memphis Brooks Museum of Art, is a member of the Community Foundation of Memphis and the University Club of Memphis. Meeks is also active on several technical engineering boards for local and state organizations. Jonathan Watkins, Vice Chair Jonathan Watkins, MPA, FACHE is the Interim Chief Executive Officer at Methodist North Hospital in Memphis. Watkins is a Certified Six Sigma Black Belt and member of the Tennessee Center for Performance Excellence Board of Examiners. He holds bachelors and masters degrees from Tennessee State University. Watkins is a member of the American College of Healthcare Executives (ACHE) and is the President of the Memphis Chapter of the National Association of Health Service Executives (NAHSE). Cortney Richardson, Secretary Minister Cortney Richardson is an associate minister at St. Paul Baptist Church where he serves as coordinator of collegiate ministry. He served in such organizations as The U of M Black Student Association, NAACP, Empowered Men of Color (President) and the Student Government Association. Richardson is employed with The Peer Power Foundation-a private tutoring/mentoring program. He serves as community liaison, hiring coordinator, and spokesperson. He owns London’s Event Planning &amp; Decorating Company. Hooks Institute Board Members Ekundayo Bandele Ekundayo Bandele is the Executive Director of Hattiloo Theater, Memphis’ black repertory theater company. In addition to serving on the board of The Hooks Institute, he serves on the Memphis Convention and Visitors Bureau Board. For his contributions to Memphis, he has received visionary awards from the Center City Commission, the United Way of the Mid-south, J.U.G.S, and Impact Memphis, and he has also received a Congressional Certificate of Honor. Memphis Business Quarterly named him a "Power Player" (2010), and in 2008 he was voted one of "12 Who Made a Difference" by The Commercial Appeal. Dorothy Cleaves Dorothy Cleaves, First Vice President and Relationship Manager in Private Banking at Paragon National Bank, has more than 25 years of experience in the financial industry. Prior to joining Paragon, Dorothy worked for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Dorothy is a 1975 graduate of Leadership Memphis. In addition to the Hooks Institute Board, she serves on the boards of the Tennessee Housing Development Agency, The Crescent Club, and is a Commissioner for Agricenter International. James S. (Jim) Crone Jr. Jim Crone is the Mid-South Comprehensive Solutions Business Development Manager for Trane U.S. Inc. (Manufacturer of Commercial HVAC and Building Controls). Jim worked with the Institute to obtain Trane's sponsorship of its 2015 Gala. Additionally, Jim and Trane's leadership officials entered into a partnership agreement with the University of Memphis to establish a relationship to recruit and employ UofM students. The Hooks Institute led this initiative and received credit from President Rudd for facilitating this partnership. Trane officials will also participate as presenters and mentors in the Hooks Institute African American Male Initiative. Michael Floyd Michael Floyd is an attorney practicing in Memphis. He is a member of Avery Chapel A.M.E. Church, a member of Phi Alpha Delta Legal Fraternity, the Memphis Bar Association, Memphis Hightailers Bicycle Club, Memphis NAACP, Fayette County NAACP, Prince Hall Free and Accepted Masons, King Frederick Consistory#38, United Supreme Council, Southern Jurisdiction, George W. Lee, I.B.P.O.E.W., and Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Inc. Attorney Floyd has also served as Grand Attorney for The Most Worshipful Prince Hall Grand Lodge of Tennessee, is currently the Assistant Grand Attorney MWPHGL, was a Charter member and Junior Warden of Benjamin L. Hooks Lodge#229 and is the current Worshipful Master of Mt.Pisgah Lodge#180. Aashigh Gahlaut Aashish Gahlaut has been with FedEx 17 years, about as long as he has been in Memphis. He grew up in India, and came to the US for graduate studies. He earned his Masters from the University of Alabama before joining FedEx. He is passionate about making Memphis a better place each day. Edward Harper Edward C-W Harper IV is a Sr. Associate Portfolio Manager at Diversified Trust Company’s Memphis Office. Prior to joining Diversified Trust, Edward attained his MBA and spent several years working in various investment banking, corporate finance and portfolio management roles for Wachovia Securities and Bank of America. Edward is a 2014 graduate of the New Memphis Fellows Program. Brent Hooks Brent Hooks, a cousin of Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks, is a recent University of Memphis graduate, currently working as an Accountant/ Assistant Project Manager with AllWorld Project Management LLC. Mr. Hooks has also been involved working with Memphis Athletic Ministries, Habitat for Humanity, North Rampart Community Center, New Orleans, LA, Bridges USA and All Children Can Learn in Holly Springs, MS. Mike Lauderdale Mike Lauderdale is the Vice President of Customer Technologies at FedEx Services. He is involved in strategy planning, FIS Leadership Development, Strategic Messaging, Stakeholder Perceptions, Benchmarking and External Research, and has been with FedEx for 25 years. Jennifer Littlejohn Jennifer Littlejohn is the Tennessee State Director of the Black Alliance for Educational Options —an education advocacy organization. In this role, Jennifer serves as a Family and Community Organizer and a Logistics Coordinator, where she sets the organizational strategy for the State of Tennessee. Jennifer lends her expertise to nonprofits in the areas of communications, marketing, and community engagement. Jennifer is a graduate of Tennessee State University, a 2006 New Memphis Institute Fellow, a 2010 graduate of the Leadership Memphis Executive Program, and a past Memphis City Beautiful Commissioner. Terri Murphy Terri Murphy works with Red Rover Sales &amp; Marketing. With a background in television and radio, and as a published author of over six books, Murphy has mastered the need to connect with people to help them achieve their best outcomes. In addition to the Hooks Institute Board, she serves on the St. Jude ALSAC – Memphis Board. Anthony Norris Anthony Norris is the President and CEO of Worldwide Label and Packaging and is heavily involved with youth swimming programs, both through Memphis Tigers Swimming and Splash Mid-south. Norris has been instrumental in connecting the Hooks Institute, the University of Memphis and the swimming community in advancing the cause of increasing minority participation in swimming. Glen Sessoms After 26.5 years of service and his last 14 in various VP positions, Mr. Sessoms retired after 2 years of service as the VP of Human Resources and Chief Diversity Officer of Federal Express in 2009. Mr. Sessoms served on the Hooks Institute Committee that selected the three young men that were honored at the Hooks Institute's April 2015 Join Hands for Change Gala: Empowering, Supporting, and Celebrating African American Men. Mr. Sessoms has a distinguished history of community service including co-chairing the National Civil Rights Museum's Freedom Award in 1997 and Chairing the Board of Leadership Memphis in 2008. Dorian Spears Dorian Spears currently serves as a Project Manager in Neighborhood Economic Vitality for Mayor Wharton's Innovation Delivery Team. She earned her Bachelor of Arts Degree in Psychology from Christian Brothers University. She is also a graduate of the Leadership Memphis Grassroots Program and The New Memphis Institute Fellows Program. Dorian currently is a member of Give 365, a board member of the Center for Transforming Communities and The Live.Seed. She has also served as a Marshall Memorial Fellowship Host, Gandhi King Conference Steering Committee Member, and member of the Memphis Urban League Young Professionals. Herman Strickland Herman Strickland is a Senior Vice President at First Tennessee Bank, where he has worked since June, 1981. He is the creator and Manager of First Tennessee Bank’s Mid-South Diversity Banking Group, a new initiative focused on providing financial services to the area’s minority community. Strickland has served or is currently serving on the board of alt.Consulting, The Rise Foundation, The Urban League, and River City Capital Corp. About the Institute About Us About Benjamin L. Hooks Director's Message Hooks Institute Staff Community Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee The Hooks Institute and You Job Opportunities Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .