#http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/productionarchives/f1970s1980.php
Fall 1970 – Spring 1980 - Theatre &amp; Dance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Theatre &amp; Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Home Theatre &amp; Dance Archives Fall 1970 – Spring 1980 1979 – 1980 Season Ralph Roister Doister – October 79 – Rice The Ballad of the Sad Cafe – November 79 – Jeffrey Posson Word and Music – December 79 – Jeffrey Posson The Good Doctor – February 80 – Joanna Helming Santa Fe Sunshine – February 80 – Keith Kennedy Carousel – April 80 – Rice A Night Out / Night School – April 80 – Robertson Lysistrata – May 80 – Shea SUMMER: Twain – June 80 – Posson The Roar of the Greasepaint – the Smell of the Crowd – June 80 – Posson 1978 – 1979 Season Noodle Park – September 78 – Joanna Helming Back County Crimes – October 78 – Keith Kennedy Eden Rock – November 78 – Jeffrey Posson The Cavern – November 78 – Stuart Margolin Improvisation – February 79 – Joanna Helming The Sword in the Stone – February 79 – Lea Queener Spring Dance Contest – March 79 – Wesley &amp; Michelle Varon The Imaginary Invalid – April 79 - Rice Off the Wall – A Symphony in Mime – April 79 - Robertson SUMMER: Numbers – July 79 – Wesley Vice &amp; Virtue – July 79 – Posson Transitions – July 79 – Robertson 1977 – 1978 Season The King is a Fink! – October 77 – Keith Kennedy The Maids – October 77 – Gantt Frog Pond – November 77 – Hodge Long Day's Journey Into Night – November 77 – Henry Swanson Guest Artist – Gig Young in Long Day's Journey into Night Equus – February 78 – Keith Kennedy Trojan Women – March 78 – Rice The Importance of Being Earnest – April 78 – Joanna Helming SUMMER: And Miss Reardon Drinks a Little – May 78 – Manson Slow Dance on the Killing Ground – May 78 – Jasper 1976 – 1977 Season You Can't Take it With You – October 76 – Strickland Cat on a Hot Tin Roof – December 76 – Gantt The Tempest – February 77 – Strickland Moonchildren – April 77 – Swanson Morris the Musical Moose – April 77 – Helming SUMMER: Celebration – June 77 – Andre Catch Me if You Can – July 77 – Hoagland What the Butler Saw – July 77 – Ritchey 1975 – 1976 Season A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum – November 75 – Franceschini Under Milkwood – December 75 – Baxter The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-In-The-Moon- Marigolds – January 76 – Hornsby The Madwoman of Chaillot – February 76 – Carney Mansions in the Sky – March 76 – Carney Scapino – April 76 – Swanson SUMMER: The Lady's Not for Burning – June 76 – Andrews Philadelphia – July 76 – Koeppel 1974 – 1975 Season Front Page (Encore) – September 74 – Burgess That Championship Season – October 74 – Keith Kennedy Old Glory – November 74 – Henry Swanson &amp; Costley Boys in the Band – November 74 – Given Peer Gynt – December 74 – White Killing of Sister George – February 75 – Haynie Tambourines to Glory – April 75 – Hardin Comedy of Errors – April 75 – Henry Swanson SUMMER: The Mousetrap – June 75 – White The Last Meeting of the Knights of the White Magnolia – August 75 – Kennedy 1973 – 1974 Season Jabberwok – October 73 – Henry Swanson Electra – November 73 – Howard Lives of Flannery O'Conner – December 73 – Malin, Hill &amp; Queener Guys and Dolls – February 74 – Henry Swanson Where is the Blood of your Fathers – March 74 – Costley Mistress of the Inn – March 74 – Burgess Moon Mysteries – March 74 – Erdman The Night Thoreau Spent in Jail – April 74 – Keith Kennedy SUMMER: Let's Get a Divorce – June 74 – Swanson Charley's Aunt – June 74 – White Darkness at Noon – July 74 – Swanson Front Page – July 74 – Burgess 1972 – 1973 Season Good Woman of Setzuan – October 72 – Gloria Baxter Aesop's Falables – November 72 – Murrey Mrs. Dolloway – November 72 – Lea Queener She Stoops to Conquer – December 72 – Bradford White Oh, What a Lovely War – February 73 – Henry Swanson Progressions &amp; Love on Don Perlimpin and Belissa in the Garden – March 73 – Anthony Ceremonies in Dark Old Men – April 73 – Costley House of Blue Leaves – April 73 – Kennedy SUMMER: Dude – July 73 – Kennedy 1971 – 1972 Season Squaring the Circle – October 71 – Bradford White Tommy – November 71 – Keith Kennedy Out of the Silent Planet – December 71 – Lea Queener An Evening of Soul – February 72 – Erma Clanton Palach – February 72 – Gloria Baxter Showcase Repertory (Original) – March 72 – Stephen Malin A Midsummer's Night Dream – April 72 – Anthony Exit the King – April 72 – Henry Swanson Bob Larkin and Kathryn Eames in Exit the King Ah! Wilderness – April 72 – Howard Guest performers – Joseph Warren, Ah! Wilderness SUMMER: Harvey – June 72 – Giberson The Inspector General – July 72 – Howard 1970 – 1971 Season The Visit – November 70 – Bradford White The Blacks – November 70 – Philip Giberson Man of La Mancha – December 70 – Keith Kennedy Flea in Her Ear – February 71 – Henry Swanson Dark of the Moon – March 71 – Radakovic Indians – April 71 – Keith Kennedy 2015-2016 Season Join us for our 2015-2016 Theatre &amp; Dance Season Purchase tickets to Next to Normal Next to Normal is an awarding winning pop rock musical with soul. Driven by an incredible score, the riveting story unmasks the seemingly normal facade of a suburban family. Watch Me – Theatre Video Take a closer look at the UofM Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Anthony Pellecchia Meet our new lighting and sound designer Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .