#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/events/events2009.php
Events 2009 - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Archives 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Events Events 2009 Hooks Calendar of Events: 2009 DECEMBER 2009 December 10 African American and Jewish American Relations in Memphis Discussion by panelists, Daphene R. McFerren, Hooks Institute, Rachel Shankman and Steve Becton, Facing History, Facing Ourselves, Memphis, TN and Berte Wolfe, former Memphis City School Board Chairperson, 7:00pm. Beth Sholom Synagogue, Memphis, TN NOVEMBER 2009 November 4 Lecture by Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks on Civil Rights and Social Justice: Past, Present and the Future University of Memphis, Michael D. Rose Theatre, 6:00pm Free and open to the public. A reception will follow the lecture. November 1 Action News 5, WMCTV Memphis, Daphene McFerren, Director Hooks Institute interview with Ben Watson Reporter, about the Hooks Institute Lecture Series in Memphis, TN and Washington, DC titled, "Civil Rights and Social Justice: Past, Present and the Future." 8:00am OCTOBER 2009 October 6 Lecture by Dr. Benjamin L. Hooks on Civil Rights and Social Justice: Past, Present and the Future Judiciary Committee Hearing Room, 2237 Rayburn House Office Building, 2nd Floor, 5:00pm Sponsored by the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis. This event is free and open to the public. A reception will follow the lecture. JULY 2009 July 27 Multicultural Memphis Breakfast: Celebrating Communities of Faith University of Memphis, Holiday Inn Ballroom, 8:00am Community Partners: Alliance for Nonprofit Excellence, Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis, Bridges USA, Greater Memphis Chamber-Int'l Business Council, Greater Memphis Immigrant Task Force, Habitat for Humanity of Greater Memphis, Latino Memphis, Memphis City Schools, Memphis Jewish Federation, Memphis Urban League, Meritan, NAACP Memphis Branch, Seedco, YMCA of Memphis and Mid-South. JUNE 2009 June 22-July 2 African American Summer History Institute A collaboration between Memphis City Schools, University of Memphis faculty and the Hooks Institute APRIL 2009 April 3-4 The Obama Phenomenon: Race and Political Discourse in Contemporary America Reverend Jeremiah Wright, Keynote Address University of Memphis campus April 2 Documentary: Freedom's Front Line: Fayette County, Tennessee WKNO- Television (Memphis, TN) at 9:30pm (repeating the following morning at 2:30am) MARCH 2009 March 5-9 Common Cents: A Personal Money Management Workshop 5:45pm–6:45pm Please contact the Hooks Institute for classroom locations at the University of Memphis FEBRUARY 2009 February 25 Documentary: Freedom's Front Line: Fayette County, Tennessee WKNO-2 (Memphis, TN) at 9:30pm February 24 Documentary: Freedom's Front Line: Fayette County, Tennessee WKNO- Television (Memphis, TN) at 9:30pm (repeating the following morning at 2:30am) February 5 National African American Read-In Chain program Program Theme: Read, Yes We Can. Featured author: Nikki Grimes, author of Barack Obama: Son of Promise, Child of Hope. Location University of Memphis, Rose Theatre, February 5, 10:00-12:00. Program Sponsors: Mid-South Reads, Memphis Content Literacy Academy, Extended Programs, Office of Affirmative Action, The U of M Reading Center, The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change, The African and African American Studies Program, Memphis Black Writers Conference. February 2-3 Black History Month Honoring the Memphis State Eight: The 50th Anniversary of the Desegregation of Memphis State University (now the University of Memphis) Co-Sponsored by The Black Student Association, The Office of Minority Affairs and the Hooks Institute. (check website for updates). JANUARY 2009 January 22 Documentary: Freedom's Front Line: Fayette County, Tennessee WKNO- Television (Memphis, TN) at 8:30pm January 10 Open Discussion with Experts from Various Disciplines Regarding How to Create and Maintain Wealth. The Pursuit of God Church, Memphis, TN Panelists: Martavius Jones (Jones Wealth Management Group); Daphene R. McFerren (Director, Hooks Institute); Marybeth Conley (Entrepreneur and WREG-TN, Channel 3); Carolyn Kent (Entrepreneur and Real Estate Agent); Terri Murphy (Consultant and Entrepreneur); Denesa Segrest (Frayser Community Development Corp.) January 1 The University Of Memphis Celebrates Kwanzaa Keynote Speaker: Daphene R. McFerren University of Memphis, Panhellenic Building, Ballroom, 4:00pm Archives 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .