#http://www.memphis.edu/internships/studentguide/successstories.php
Success Stories - Internships - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Internships Student Employer Faculty Internship Guidelines Events Contact Us Student Guide Campus Resources Internship Opportunities University Internship Programs Home Internships Student Guide Success Stories Student Success Stories Many UofM students have experienced tremendous results from their academic internships. Listed below are a few examples of students who have benefited from their internship experience at their internship sites. To watch a video of one of our successful internship experiences, Click here . Also, see a video of the Fall 2014 Green Internship experience. Ina Brown Classification: Senior Internship Site: I know no other way to explain my internship experience except memorable. This semester I learned the true value of a green internship. I was very pleased to have worked alongside Dr. Simco, Dr. Goudie, and the volunteer David. Dr. Simco taught me many things about water aquatics, and showed me how USDA grade catfish are raised. Dr. Goudie helped me enhance my experience with excel. While teaching me the true value of our environment all the way down to the trees and birds that we see on a daily basis. David and I were able to get all the bird feeders, blue bird houses and martin house setup and installed around the circle drive on South Campus. Time seemed to fly by as I learn new and exciting things. I would recommend this site for any future green intern, due to the fact that they welcomed me with open arms, and I gained so much knowledge about saving our environment Katana Buchanan Classification : Senior Internship site : Jabberblabber Earth Friendly Family Magazine While interning at Jabberblabber Earth Friendly Family Magazine, I have to say my most memorable moment was going out to the community and helping with events. I loved getting out and being effective and helpful in the community. Katie Dagastino Classification : Senior Internship site : Ground Water Institute The most valuable thing that I will take away from my internship is the amount of confidence that this opportunity has given me. I will end this year and a half long experience with the knowledge and the wherewithal to enter into the job market as a more capable, confident, and knowledgeable geologist. I am so grateful to GWI and the internship office for allowing me this experience Carlo Garcia Classification: Senior Internship Site: Industrial Assessment Center - Mechanical Engineering As a mechanical engineering student, it is very important to build a professional network for potentially future internships or full time positions. By working with the Industrial Assessment Center, I've had the opportunity to network during each Industrial Assessment project and event. Learning different processes from different plant managers and engineering staff on different facilities has given me a better understating on what to expect as a mechanical engineer. Elizabeth Jones Classification: Junior Internship Site: Student Health Center. My most memorable moments were my tabling events in the University Center. I prepared a table on topics such as Birth Control, Spring Break Safety, and Skin Safety. What I enjoyed most was being able to teach people about the risk factors, prevention, and multiple facts associated with each topic. I also enjoyed having to be creative and coming up with designs that would draw people in to want to learn about my topic. Student Guide Campus Resources Internship Opportunities University Internship Programs Veteran Reconnect Internship Program Learn more about the Veteran Reconnect Internship Program The Washington Center Internship Program Learn more about TWC Green Internship Program Tiger Blue Goes Green Search for Internships Browse Current Internship Opportunities Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .