#http://www.memphis.edu/sph/programs/mphcompetencies.php
MPH Competencies - SPH - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Public Health About Programs People Students &amp; Alumni News Programs MHA Admissions Apply Now Competencies Day One Internship Handbook Mission, Vision and Values Newsletter Program Requirements MPH Admissions Apply Now Competencies Handbook Practicum Program Requirements Epi PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook HSP PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook SBS PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook Population Health Certificate Interpreter Course Interpreter Course Information Interpreter Course Requirements Interpreter Course Registration &amp; Payment Home SPH Programs MPH Competencies MPH Competencies The MPH program has been designed to help students develop the competencies they need to be successful in an array of public health careers and organizational settings. The competencies for all MPH graduates are provided below, followed by the competencies for each of the concentrations. General competencies Apply basic concepts of probability, random variation and commonly used statistical probability distributions Apply descriptive techniques commonly used to summarize public health data Interpret results of statistical analyses found in public health studies Analyze the direct and indirect human, ecological and safety effects of major environmental and occupational agents Apply federal and state regulatory programs, guidelines and authorities that control environmental health issues Systematically examine a public health problem in terms of magnitude, person, time and place to develop potential responses or interventions Apply the basic terminology and definitions of epidemiology Calculate basic epidemiology measures Describe interrelationships among the main components and issues of the organization, financing and delivery of health services and public health systems in the US Demonstrate use of the policy process for improving the health status of populations Apply "systems thinking" for resolving organizational problems Demonstrate an understanding of basic theories, concepts and models from a range of social and behavioral disciplines that are used in public health research and practice Explain the causes of social and behavioral factors that affect health of individuals and populations Demonstrate effective written and oral skills for communicating with different audiences in the context of professional public health activities Apply the principles of community-based participatory research to develop interventions for diverse populations Illustrate the importance of public health programs and strategies responsive to diverse cultural values and traditions of the communities being served Commit to the attributes of leadership in public health Apply the core functions of assessment, policy development, and assurance in the analysis of public health problems and their solutions Embrace a definition of public health that captures the unique characteristics of the field (e.g., population-focused, community-oriented, prevention-motivated and rooted in social justice) and how these contribute to professional practice biostatistics concentration competencies Evaluate preferred methodological alternatives to commonly used statistical methods when assumptions are not met Distinguish among and apply the different measurement scales and understand the implications for selection of statistical methods to be used based on these distinctions Apply common statistical methods for inference environmental health competencies Explain genetic, physiologic and psychosocial factors that affect susceptibility to adverse health outcomes following exposure to environmental hazards Apply current environmental risk assessment methods Propose approaches for assessing, preventing and controlling environmental hazards that pose risks to human health and safety Delve into the general mechanisms of toxicity in eliciting a toxic response to various environmental exposures Develop various risk management and risk communication approaches in consideration of issues of environmental justice and equity epidemiology competencies Integrate epidemiologic concepts to inform scientific, ethical, economic and political discussions of health issues Interpret epidemiologic data and measures Evaluate the strengths and limitations of epidemiologic reports related to infectious, chronic, or genetic diseases health services administration competencies Apply the principles of program planning, development, budgeting, management and evaluation in of strategic planning and marketing to public health Apply principles of strategic planning and marketing to public health Leverage quality and performance improvement concepts to assess and influence organizational performance issues Demonstrate leadership skills for building partnerships social and behavioral sciences competencies Propose steps and procedures for the planning, implementation and evaluation in organizational and community initiatives Assess the role of social and community factors in both the onset and solution of public health problems Apply evidence-based approaches in the development and evaluation of social and behavioral science interventions Programs MHA Admissions Apply Now Competencies Day One Internship Handbook Mission, Vision and Values Newsletter Program Requirements MPH Admissions Apply Now Competencies Handbook Practicum Program Requirements Epi PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook HSP PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook SBS PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook Population Health Certificate Interpreter Course Interpreter Course Information Interpreter Course Requirements Interpreter Course Registration &amp; Payment Apply Now Contact Us Support SPH Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .