#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/econ/2015FECON2010003.pdf
1 Course Syllabus ECON 2010-003 (CRN 92718) – Introduction to Macroe conomics 3 Credit Hours Instructor: Dr. Douglas Campbell Phone : (901) 678 -3754 E-mail: douglas.campbell@memphis.edu Office: FCBE 409 Office Hours: Wednesdays, 1:00 pm – 2:00 pm Course Overview Economics 2010 analyzes the overall performance of economic systems including output and employment levels, inflation, economic growth, international finance, and the effects of monetary and fiscal policies. The goal of Economics 2010 is to develop a framework that the student can use to analyze the overall behavior of a modern mixed -capitalist economy and its international interactions. This framework introduces the student to the economic way of thinking about the macro -level forces at work in society that shape economic performance and guide economic policy. Performance and policy then feed back and influence the business and social e nvironment. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) Principles of Macroeconomics Coppock and Mateer 1st edition, loose -leaf ISBN 978-0-393-27661-9 You’ll also need access to Inquizitive, which is the online homework program we’ll use. To purchase access to Inquizitive or register with an access code, click here ( ) . Note that Inquizitive contains the e -book version of the text. Location of Course Materials Course information, such as the syllabus, review sheets, and exam grades will be available via ecourseware. Homework assignments and grades will be located on Inquizitive. I do not have a copy of the textbook on reserve at the library. Course Objectives By successfully completing this course, students will be able to: 1. The student should be able to define scarcity, opportunity costs, demonstrate how they affect economic decisions, and identify those costs in a given economic decision. 2. The student should be able to understand and describe the concepts and measurement of gross domestic product, unemployment, and inflation, and how these variables correspond to the business cycle. 3. The student should be able to understand and describe the difference between short -run business cycles and long -run economic growth and the factor s that contribute to each. 4. The student should be able to understand and describe how Aggregate Demand and Aggregate Supply determine macroeconomic equilibrium price and output in the short run and the long run. 5. The student should be able to understand and describe the following for both fiscal policy and monetary policy: concepts, tools, implementation, limitations, relative advantages and disadvantages, and how each affects aggregate economic activity. 6. The student should be able to understand and describe the arguments pro and con for a policy of laissez -faire versus government activism in the management of macroeconomic policies. 7. The student should be able to understand and describe the concepts of comparative advantage, the balance of payments and its com ponents, and the determinants of exchange rates. The Fogelman College of Business and Economics Learning Outcomes for Your Degree Course Methodology This is a traditional, in -class lecture course. Some content will be delivered online, but most will be in class. Professor’s Expectations I do expect you to arrive at class prepared for lecture and having read the necessary material in advance. Also, you should plan to arrive at class before the official time at which class begins, 9:40 AM. Student's Expectations In my role as your instruct or, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well -organized and engaging learning experience, response to emails within two (2) business days or as quickly as possible , and feedback on all work submitted as quickly as possible. Grading and Evaluation Criteria There will be three midterm exams and a final. The final will be comprehensive and is mandatory – it cannot be dropped or avoided. You can drop your lowest midterm exam score. Because of this , there will be no make -up exams. If you know in advance that you will be out of town on the day of an exam, let me know and I will schedule an alternate time for you to take the test. There will also be one homework assignment per chapter . The assignments will consist of a selection of questi ons from Inquizitive . You can expect approximately one homework assignment per week . The assignments will be issued as the material we cover in class dictates. You will be allowed to drop your two lowest homework assignment grades. All assignments t aken together will account for 25 % of your final grade. The tests and other assignments are weighted as follows in determining your final grade: Exams One, Two and/or Three 50% (25% each) Final Exam 25% Homework Assignments 25% Final Course Grades The grading scale is as follows: A+ 98 – 100 A 90 – 97 B+ 88 – 89 B 80 – 87 C+ 78 – 79 C 70 – 77 D 60 – 70 F < 60 There will be no curve on any assignment or exams. Any end -of-semester curve on final grades will be administered at my discretion and is extremely unlikely. Do not count on a curve, as I’ve never used one before. Course Topics Economics 2010 analyzes the overall performance of economic systems including output and employment levels, inflation, economic growth, international finance, and the effects of monetary and fiscal policies. The goal of Economics 2010 is to develop a framework that the student can use to analyze the overall behavior of a modern mixed -capitalist economy and its international interactions. This framework introduces the student to the economic way of thinking about the macro -level forces at work in society that shape economic performance and guide economic policy. Performance and policy then feed back and influence the business and social e nvironment. List of Formal Assessed Activities There will be three midterm exams and a final. The final will be comprehensive and is mandatory – it cannot be dropped or avoided. You can drop your lowest midterm exam score. Because of this , there will be no make -up exams. If you know in advance that you will be out of town on the day of an exam, let me know and I will schedule an alternate time for you to take the test. There will also be one homework assignment per chapter . The assignments will consist of a selection of questions from Inquizitive . Thus, you can expect up to two homework assignments per week . The assignments will be issued as the material we cover in class dictates. You will be allowed to drop your two lowest homework assignment grades. All assignments t aken together will account for 25 % of your final grade. Schedule of Activities Following is an approximate schedule for the semester. The schedule is subject to revision as necessary. The exam dates listed are n ot likely to change, only the material covered on each day or on each exam. (Note that if there is no chapter listed for a particular day, this does not mean that there will be no class that day, just that what we cover that day is undetermined as of the b eginning of the semester.) Week Meeting Day Date Material Covered/Text Chapters 1 1 T 25-Aug Introduction and Overview, Ch. 1 2 R 27-Aug 2 2 3 T 1-Sep 2, 3 4 R 3-Sep 3 3 5 T 8-Sep 6 6 R 10-Sep 7 4 7 T 15-Sep 8 8 R 17-Sep Exam One 5 9 T 22-Sep 8 10 R 24-Sep 9 6 11 T 29-Sep 10 12 R 1-Oct 11 7 13 T 6-Oct 12 14 R 8-Oct Exam Two 8 T 13-Oct No Class – Fall Break 15 R 15-Oct 13 9 16 T 20-Oct 14 17 R 22-Oct 15 10 18 T 27-Oct 16 19 R 29-Oct 17 11 20 T 3-Nov 18 21 R 5-Nov Exam Three 12 22 T 10-Nov 19 23 R 12-Nov 20 13 24 T 17-Nov R 19-Nov 14 25 T 24-Nov 26 R 26-Nov No Class – Thanksgiving Break 15 27 T 1-Dec Last Day of Class Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class has been scheduled according to the Registrar’s Academic Calendar , on Tue sday, December 8, 2015, from 10:30 AM to 12:30 PM , in our regular classroom. Course Policies Email Any inquiries about grades sent via email must be sent from your University of Memphis email account. I cannot respond to questions about grades sent from any other email service. All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. You will recei ve all official course correspondence at this email account. Any inability to receive incoming mail in a timely fashion (e.g., not regularly checking your email, having a “full mailbox”, etc.) is the student’s responsibility. Attendance Attendance will be taken daily but does not factor directly into your grade. However, attending class regularly is important and will ultimately affect your final grade. I do expect you to be here on time. Lateness is strongly discouraged. Adding/Dropping Classes If you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to this page on the Registrar’s website . Academic Integrity Expectations for academic integrity and student conduct are described in detail on the website of the Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Affairs . Please take a look, in particular, at the sections about “Academic Dishonesty,” “Code of Rights and Responsibilities,” and “Examples of Disruptive Behaviors.” I expect students to be aware of these guidelines and to conduct themselves accordingly. Any in cidents of academic dishonesty (i.e. cheating on a test, plagiarizing, etc.) will result in a final grade of “F” for the course. Note that using a “Solutions Manual” is considered cheating. Should I obtain evidence that the use of a “Solutions Manual” has occurred, I might take steps as described on the campus’ Office of Student Conduct website .” Participation To be successful in this course as a student, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Students are strongly encouraged to participate in class discussions . You should also communicate with me if you have any questions. Classroom B ehavior All participants in this course should be considerate of the other course participants and treat them (as well as their opinions) with respect. In the interest of promoting a classroom environment that is conducive to learning, you must turn off yo ur cell phones before entering the room. Additionally, there will be no eating in class, unnecessary exits, excessive talking, or disruptive behavior. Keep in mind that you can be dropped from the class for violating these rules. Late Assignments Late assignments will not be accepted. Extra Credit You will have the opportunity to earn bonus points throughout the semester. For example, there will be bonus practice quizzes posted prior to each exam that you can take for extra credit. The bonus practice quizzes will be posted to ecourseware about a week before each exam and will consist of questions from the test bank included with the text. Each bonus practice quiz will add up to ! point to your final average. The bonus practice quizzes are entirely opti onal and count only for bonus points. If you choose not to do them, you will not be penalized. Some opportunities to earn extra points will require your presence in class – missed opportunities for extra points cannot be made up. Reporting Illness or Absen ce If you are absent, you are responsible for finding out what you missed, either from me or from a classmate. I do not have notes to share with you, so you’ll have to get those elsewhere. I don’t require any notes or documentation to support your absence, but you are welcome to provide such if you like. Inclement Weather In the event of University closure (due to inclement weather or any other reason) or an unplanned instructor absence, you should check your student email account for instructions from me. (Your student email address is yourUUID @memphis.edu.) My policy is t hat if class is canceled for any reason, what we would have covered on the day(s) missed will be resumed immediately upon our return. This applies to lectures, exams, or anything else. Additionally, The University of Memphis has established an Inclement We ather Hotline at (901) 678-0888, as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service available for students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on -cam pus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather. Click here for information on TigerText. Syllabus Changes This course syllabus provides a general plan for the semester; deviations might be necessary. Student Service s Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : • Students with D isabilities • Tutoring and other Academic Assistance • Advising Services for Fogelman Students • Technical Assistance