#http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/edpr/qual_cert.php
Qualitative Certificate - CEPR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Counseling, Educational Psychology &amp; Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Ed Psych &amp; Research Faculty Research EDPR Menu Degrees &amp; Certificates M.S. Online M.S. Ph.D. Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Research Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions Apply M.S. Application M.S. Online Application Ph.D. Application International Students Graduate Assistantships Graduate Catalog Research EDPR Colloquia A-Team Childhood Study Group QUIC SPIRIT Professional Associations Statistical Consulting Undergraduate Educational Research Team View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Home CEPR EDPR Qualitative Certificate Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Research in Education Only students who have been admitted at the graduate level at the University of Memphis are eligible to apply. Graduate students in good standing will be admitted to the certificate program on the recommendation of the student’s advisor and a review of the application materials by the EDPR qualitative research faculty. See application process below. Successful applicants must have a minimum GPA of 3.0; complete all Certificate Program course requirements with a B or above average; have a qualitative methodologist sit on their dissertation committee; complete the Application for Admission Form ; and complete the Certificate in Qualitative Research Completion Form . Submit all application materials to: Jennifer Mueller 100 Ball Hall University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Students who are not making satisfactory progress will be subject to removal from the program following faculty review. Certificate Coordinators Dr. Alison Happel Dr. Susan Nordstrum Affiliated Faculty Dr. Mitsunori Misawa Certificate Course Requirements The certificate requires 12 semester hours of credit. Below are the required and elective qualitative courses available to students: Required core courses (9 credits): EDPR 7/8561: Introduction to Qualitative Research in Education (Offered Fall and Spring semesters) EDPR 7/8562: Designing Qualitative Research (Offered every Spring semester) EDPR 7/8565: Qualitative Methods and Analysis (Offered every Fall semester) Example Electives (3 credits unless otherwise noted): EDPR 7/8563: Applied Qualitative Theories and Methodologies EDPR 7/8566: Writing Up Qualitative Research (Week-long Spring/Summer Retreat) EDPR 8008: Directed Readings in Qualitative Research EDPR 8081: Supervised Research in Qualitative Inquiry ANTH 7/8075: Methods in Anthropology (4 credits) ANTH 7/8076: Anthropological Data Analysis (4 credits) SOCI 7/8320: Seminar in Methods of Social Research SOCI 7/8325: Seminar in Qualitative Research Methods COMM 7/8332: Seminar in Communication Research: Advanced Qualitative Research Methods COMM 7/8434: Qualitative Research Methods PSYC 7/8312: Qualitative Research Methods in Psychology Because qualitative methods vary across academic disciplines, the way in which the credit hours are packaged may vary. The qualitative coordinators will assist students in developing a program that meets the needs and interests of the individual student while also complying with the certificate requirements. We recognize that many courses across campus can enrich our elective selection. However, we cannot list all current and future potential electives. If a student feels that a course outside of EDPR is appropriate as an elective, the student can complete the Petition for Elective form to be reviewed and approved by the qualitative coordinators. EDPR Menu Degrees &amp; Certificates M.S. Online M.S. Ph.D. Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Research Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions Apply M.S. Application M.S. Online Application Ph.D. Application International Students Graduate Assistantships Graduate Catalog Research EDPR Colloquia A-Team Childhood Study Group QUIC SPIRIT Professional Associations Statistical Consulting Undergraduate Educational Research Team View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Admissions Current Students Student Organizations Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/7/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .