#http://www.memphis.edu/eece/programs/undergraduate.php
Undergraduate Programs - EECE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Electrical and Computer Engineering Future Students Current Students Research People About Accreditation Programs Accreditation Information Undergraduate Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering Dual Major Doctoral Masters Graduate Certificate Home EECE Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Accreditation information for Undergraduate Programs Computer Engineering Computer Engineering Accreditation Information Computer Engineering Program Educational Objectives Computer Engineering Student Outcomes Computer Engineering Enrollment and Graduation Data Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering Accreditation Information Electrical Engineering Program Educational Objectives Electrical Engineering Student Outcomes Electrical Engineering Enrollment and Graduation Data Computer Engineering Computer Engineering Accreditation Information The undergraduate program in Computer Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET ( .). top Program Educational Objectives – Computer Engineering Undergraduate Program Within a few years, graduates of the computer engineering program of the University of Memphis will have: secured employment in electrical or computer engineering, or related fields. advanced their careers, as measured by promotions, salaries, career satisfaction, positions of leadership, awards, recognitions, entrepreneurial activities, development of products or processes, patents, and/or publications. continued to learn new knowledge and to acquire new expertise, as measured by post-graduate education, continuing education, and/or professional registration. contributed to society and the profession, as measured by professional service, community service, and/or public service. Constituencies: Students, Alumni, Faculty, and Employers Revision Frequency: 4 years Next Revision Cycle: Fall 2017 top Computer Engineering Student Outcomes Graduates of the computer engineering program will have demonstrated: an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability an ability to function on multidisciplinary teams an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility an ability to communicate effectively the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context a recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning a knowledge of contemporary issues an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice. Enrollment and Graduation Data: (Fall 2014 Semester Census) Fall Time / Part Time 124 / 19 Number of Graduates in 2013-14 Academic Year 14 (Fall 2015 Semester Census) Fall Time / Part Time 113/25 Number of Graduates in 2014-15 Academic Year 9 top Electrical Engineering Electrical Engineering Accreditation Information The undergraduate program in Electrical Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET ( .). top Program Educational Objectives – Electrical Engineering Undergraduate Program Within a few years, graduates of the electrical engineering program of the University of Memphis will have secured employment in electrical or computer engineering, or related fields. advanced their careers, as measured by promotions, salaries, career satisfaction, positions of leadership, awards, recognitions, entrepreneurial activities, development of products or processes, patents, and/or publications. continued to learn new knowledge and to acquire new expertise, as measured by post-graduate education, continuing education, and/or professional registration. contributed to society and the profession, as measured by professional service, community service, and/or public service. Constituencies: Students, Alumni, Faculty, and Employers. Revision Frequency: 4 years Next Revision Cycle: Fall 2017 top Electrical Engineering Student Outcomes Graduates of electrical engineering program will have demonstrated: an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability an ability to function on multidisciplinary teams an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility an ability to communicate effectively the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context a recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning a knowledge of contemporary issues an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice. Enrollment and Graduation Data: (Fall 2014 Semester Census) Full Time / Part Time 107 / 16 Number of Graduates in 2013-14 Academic Year 18 (Fall 2015 Semester Census) Full Time / Part Time 89/26 Number of Graduates in 2014-15 Academic Year 19 top Programs Accreditation Information Undergraduate Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering Dual Major Doctoral Masters Graduate Certificate Herff College of Engineering Herff College of Engineering Homepage Faculty Resources EECE Faculty Resources Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .