#http://www.memphis.edu/music/fac-staff/bios/chiego-j.php
John Chiego (M.M.) - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Faculty and Staff Alphabetical Applied Music Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Class Piano Composition and Theory Conducting Jazz Music Education Music History Music Industry Home Music Faculty and Staff John Chiego (M.M.) John Chiego (M.M.) Director of the School of Music Phone (901) 678-3773 Email jchiego@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-3096 Office MU 201 Office Hours Contact Mr. Chiego for appointments. Career Highlights Author of The Musical Experience , an innovative music appreciation textbook/web site, published by Kendall-Hunt Memphis Symphony, Principal Double Bass Solo recital and presentation at the International Society of Bassists Convention CD – It's A Bass Thing! Playing on stage at Carnegie Hall with one of my former UofM students Playing the Old Course at St. Andrews after a recital in Edinburgh, Scotland About John Chiego John Chiego is Director of the School of Music and Professor of Double Bass. Mr. Chiego has been an active performer his entire career serving in positions such a Principal Bass of the Nashville Chamber Orchestra and bassist for the Orpheum Theatre Orchestra in Memphis playing for touring Broadway shows. He was the long time Principal Bass of the Memphis Symphony Orchestra and has served on the faculties of the Hot Springs Music Festival, Brevard Music Center, Allegheny Summer Music Festival, Blue Lake Fine Arts Camp, and the Tennessee Governor's School for the Arts before recently joining the faculty of the National Music Festival. For the past three years Mr. Chiego has been a frequent performer with the Nashville Symphony Orchestra. He has also been an Artist-in-Residence at the Bay View Chamber Music Festival and toured with artists such as Amy Grant and Vince Gill. As a recitalist and clinician, Mr. Chiego has traveled extensively throughout the United States, Canada, and Europe, with featured solo recitals at the Edinburgh International Double Bass Festival and The International Society of Bassists' worldwide convention. A champion of modern instruments, Mr. Chiego recorded his first CD, It's a Bass Thing, featuring a unique double bass built by Thomas Kelischek. Mr. Chiego currently plays instruments made by American bass maker Rumano Solano exclusively. Mr. Chiego has been a member of the editorial board for The American String Teacher magazine, a journal for which he has written articles on double bass pedagogy and technique, and has served as Tennessee Chapter President of the American String Teachers Association. Mr. Chiego is the author of The Musical Experience, a popular textbook for introductory music courses currently being used by colleges and universities across the United States. Mr. Chiego has most recently performed regularly with the Nashville Symphony and been a bassist on numerous musical scores for Sony Playstation and Microsoft Xbox video games. Faculty and Staff Alphabetical Applied Music Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Class Piano Composition and Theory Conducting Jazz Music Education Music History Music Industry Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .