#http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/productionarchives/f1960s1970.php
Fall 1960 – Spring 1970 - Theatre &amp; Dance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Theatre &amp; Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Home Theatre &amp; Dance Archives Fall 1960 – Spring 1970 1969 – 1970 Season The Glass Menagerie– October 69- Eugene Bence Something Wicked this Way Comes- December 69- Gloria Baxter Hair- March 70- Keith Kennedy The Prisoners- April 70- Bivens 1968 – 1969 Season Show Boat– October 68- Keith Kennedy The Time of your Life- November 68- Morris School for Scandal- November 68- Harris Ausprich J.B.- December 68- Eugene Bence A Moon for the Misbegotten- December 68- Vaughn Indian Summer- March 69- Stephen Malin A Rainbow has a Mind of its Own- March 69- Stephen Malin Bird Thou Never Wert- March 69- Stephen Malin Noon Wine- May 69- Lea Queener 1967 – 1968 Season The Amorous Flea- January 67- Cunningham Gold in the Hills- October 67- Prendeville Animal Farm- November 67- Gloria Baxter Arms and the Man- December 67- Kempster Orestia- April 68- Keith Kennedy 1966 – 1967 Season The Rivals- October 66- Bradford White House of Bernarda Alba- December 66- Eugene Bence The Centaur- February 67-Lea Queener Richard III- April 67- Keith Kennedy Member of the Wedding- May 67- Lea Queener High John de Conquerer- May 67- Stephen Malin 1965 – 1966 Season Dr. Knock- November 65- Stephen Malin School for Wives- December 65 Bradford White Eastward Ho!- March 66- Salmon The firebugs- April 66- Keith Kennedy 1964 – 1965 Season Black Eye'd Susan- November 64- Bradford White Hedda Gabler- December 64- Stephen Malin Royal Gambit- January 65- Eugene Bence Lucky Jim- March 65- Lea Park Winter's Tale- April 65- Salmon Troubled Waters- May 65- Salmon 1963 – 1964 Season Sabrina Fair- November 63- Eugene Bence The Madwoman of Chaillot- December 63- Bradford White The Odyssey- March 64- Lea Park Twelfth Night- April 64- Parson 1962 – 1963 Season Dark at the Top of the Stairs - November 62 – Herzog Antigone – December 62 – Bradford White Henry V – February 63 – Vaughn Under Milk Wood – March 62 – Vaughn Dear Brutus – April 63 – Eugene Bence Orpheus and Eurydice – May 63 – Herzog 1961 – 1962 Season Look Homeward Angel – November 61 – Eugene Bence Dave Crockett's Challenge – December 61 – Hamsell Don Pasquale – February 62 – Herzog Angel Street – March 62 – Eugene Bence Much Ado About Nothing – April 62 – Vaughn The Innocents – May 62 – Herzog SUMMER: Dagger of the Moon – June 62 – Herzog As You Like It – Aug 62 – Gresham 1960 – 1961 Season The Matchmaker – October 60 – Bradford White The Diary of Anne Frank – December 60 – Eugene Bence Aria Da Capo – March 61 – Arnolt (student) The Bald Soprano – March 61 – Jackson (student) The Starring Match – March 61 – Leffew (student) Julius Caesar – April 61 – Eugene Bence 2015-2016 Season Join us for our 2015-2016 Theatre &amp; Dance Season Purchase tickets to Next to Normal Next to Normal is an awarding winning pop rock musical with soul. Driven by an incredible score, the riveting story unmasks the seemingly normal facade of a suburban family. Watch Me – Theatre Video Take a closer look at the UofM Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Anthony Pellecchia Meet our new lighting and sound designer Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .