#http://www.memphis.edu/benhooks/events/events2008.php
Events 2008 - Ben Hooks - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change About Programs Newsroom Events Creative Works Collections Archives 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Support the Institute Home Ben Hooks Events Events 2008 Hooks Calendar of Events: 2008 DECEMBER 2008 December 12 Hooks Institute Reception At the Law Offices of Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell &amp; Berkowitz (Washington, DC) NOVEMBER 2008 November 13 Multicultural Memphis Breakfast Theme: Multiculturalism and Education University of Memphis, Holiday Inn, 7:30am-9:00am Sponsored by Leadership Memphis, The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change, City of Memphis, Advent Enterprises, Inc., Facing History and Ourselves, and the Memphis City Schools OCTOBER 2008 October 26 "Telling the Stories of Fayette County, TN: Virtual and Geographic Communities." A panel discussion featuring Dr. Leigh Ann Duck, Dr. Loel Kim, and Donna Pope. Gandhi King Conference on Peacemaking Christian Brothers University (Memphis, TN) October 21-November 25 Common Cents: A Personal Money Management Workshop 5:45pm–6:45pm Please contact the Hooks Institute for classroom locations at the University of Memphis October 16-November 20 Common Cents: A Personal Money Management Workshop 5:45pm–6:45pm Please contact the Hooks Institute for classroom locations at the University of Memphis October 16 Channel 3's "Live at 9:00" at Peabody Place (Memphis, TN) Interview with Daphene and Viola McFerren regarding the premiere of the documentary, "Freedom's Front Line: Fayette County, Tennessee" October 16 Documentary: Freedom's Front Line: Fayette County, Tennessee WKNO- Television (Memphis, TN) at 8:00pm October 2-4 RICHARD WRIGHT CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION Sponsored by The Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities, The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change, African and African American Studies Program, and the Communications Department October 2 at 6:30pm Julia Wright, Keynote Address Fogelman Executive Center October 3 at 1:30pm Panel Discussion on Richard Wright: Tyler Stovall, Abdul Janmohamed, and Joyce Ann Joyce Fogelman Executive Center. October 3 at 6:30pm Performing Richard Wright: Reginald Brown Fogelman Executive Center SEPTEMBER 2008 September 30 "Eyewitness News Takes You to Money School" Report on the RISE Foundation Course, "Common Cents: A Personal Money Management Workshop" sponsored by the Hooks Institute. Report by Joyce Stevenson, ABC 24/CW 30, Eyewitness News (Memphis, TN) September 19 The Federal Communications Commission (Washington, DC), and Hooks Institute, Forum on the Digital Television Transition, FCC Commissioner Deborah Taylor Tate, Keynote Speaker University of Memphis, Panhellenic Building Ballroom, 384 Patterson Street, 1:00pm-2:30pm September 12 Open House Presentation of Hooks Institute Initiatives to faculty and community members. University of Memphis, Rose Theatre, Entertainment Lobby, 1:00pm September 4-October 9 Common Cents: A Personal Money Management Workshop 5:45pm–6:45pm Please contact the Hooks Institute for classroom locations at the University of Memphis September 2-October 7 Common Cents: A Personal Money Management Workshop 5:45pm–6:45pm Please contact the Hooks Institute for classroom locations at the University of Memphis FEBRUARY 2008 February 20 Institute Luncheon Introduce faculty and students to the work of the Hooks Institute Archives 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Support the Institute Critical Conversations A University-wide initiative to promote and sustain an inclusive and democratic society: Where is your voice? Fayette County Movement Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Mapping Civil Rights Explore the history of seminal events and locations in the American Civil Rights Movement Contact Us Office location and contact information Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .