#http://www.memphis.edu/mscm/pdfs/newsletter/mscm_newsletter_vol_6_2012f.pdf
From The Chair The 2012/2013 academic year kicked off with a ﬂurry of activities. Our two student groups -- the Student Marketing Association and the Supply Chain Management Student Association - have already participated in a number of activities, gaining recognition along the way. A team of SCM students went to Detroit to participate in a national competition, and several faculty members have received acceptance letters from top journals, while others have seen their articles published in the past couple of months. The department’s new social commerce minor was launched this fall and the SCM major continues to grow. Look inside this issue of the newsletter for details on these and other exciting happenings in our department. I’d also like to introduce our newest faculty member, Dr. Orrin Cooper. Orrin received his Ph.D. from the University of Pittsburgh and is challenging students in the ISDS 3711 course. Read more about Orrin and his research on page four. With November upon us and the holidays approaching quickly, I want to take this moment to thank everybody who contributes to the department. We have a highly productive group of educators, supported by wonderful staff members and an outstanding team of professionals and executives who comprise our advisory board. This allows us to provide a positive and enriching academic experience to all of our talented students in the Fogelman College of Business & Economics.Have a Happy Thanksgiving and wonderful holiday season! !!! Marla Dr. Marla Royne Stafford SMASCSMAPresident: Ashley Key Vice President: Kellyn Turner Secretary: Catherine McDermontt Treasurer: Sarah Kelly Advisor: Mr. Dale Kehr President: Jasmine Martin Vice President: Peter Hanbok Secretary: Megan Gwatney Treasurer: Sarah Hayes Events and Operations: Michael Miller Academic Liaison: Gabrielle Johnson Advisor: Dr. Shawn Jones SCMSA Establishes Community ConnectionThe growing SCMSA organization is regularly seeking opportunities to connect with local businesses, and they recently received a wonderful gift. The Council of Supply Chain Management Professionals (CSCMP) gave the student association a $500 donation to support their funding and activities. CSCMP is a worldwide organization with the goals to “provide opportunities for supply chain professionals to communicate in order to develop and improve their supply chain management skills”, and “create awareness of the signiﬁcance of supply chain to business and to the economy” (1). The CSCMP goals align with the SCMSA initiatives as students and professionals participate in meetings and functions in order to learn more about the supply chain industry, and to network with industry leaders. Other professional speakers this semester comes from International Paper and Thomason and Batts; tours of the International Paper box plant and McKesson facilities are also scheduled. SCMSA recruits members through various events sponsored by the Registered Student Organization and functions such as “Choose Your Major” day. Members and organization coordinator, Dr. Shawn Jones all regularly recruit in the classroom by informing students about new speaker events, meeting times, and facility tours. To contact SCMSA, please email Shawn Jones at shawn.jones@memphis.edu .Former Maybelline VP Speaks at Event On October 22, SCMSA hosted Heard Murphy as a guest speaker for the organization and all students. Murphy is former vice president of Maybelline and related his speech to both his personal career development and Maybelline operations. He spoke with students about the inner-workings of corporate sales and how he “started with an entry-level position at the very bottom” and worked his way up the company’s positions to Vice President. Murphy’s expertise benefits any student interested not only in supply chain, but in the general world of business.2 Since their start in January 2012, the Student Marketing Association has been working to fulfill their purpose to encourage and facilitate ongoing student involvement in academics and marketing. With a solid Promise Day prize and successful fundraising efforts, this organization is unfolding potential to impact students greatly. The first speaker of the year was Alex Embry, Marketing Coordinator for RVD Outdoor Design Destinations. His presentation focused on corporate marketing and internships to give the organization more insight on his day-to-day challenges in marketing. Another speaker workshop headlined Leslie and Mike Presson, owners of Three Dog Bakery. Their focus on franchise marketing highlighted their hands-on operations of their entrepreneurship work, which is a popular path for many business students. The organization currently averages 50 active members, and SMA Sign- up Day is on November 5th at 11:30 AM in the Fogelman lobby. To contact SMA for more information, email mscmsma@memphis.edu SMA Progresses to Full Function 3 Dr. Orrin Cooper is the latest addition to the MSCM Department as he assumes the role of teaching ISDS 3711, Analytical Tools of Business. He is a recent Ph.D. graduate of the University of Pittsburgh, concentrating on Operations and Decision Sciences. Multi-criteria decision making, Analytic Network Process (ANP), and behavior operations are the specialties he brings to the University of Memphis. Recent published works include a research article in the Journal of Multi- Criteria Decision Analysis Selection (Selection of a Third-Party Logistics Provider: Capturing the Interaction and Inﬂuence of Performance Metrics with the Analytical Network Process ), and an article on how companies can select which green supply chain initiatives would be most beneficial to implement. Dr. Cooper’s motivation in the classroom is to prepare students for the workforce. “Students need to know how to use Excel in the workplace; it makes a huge difference to an employer to have experience with this tool.” “I am excited to share my knowledge and experience with students because of my former work with the government in budget process,” Cooper states. That experience creating and working with “living spreadsheets” is a valuable asset to share with the students so they can create spreadsheets that are easy to update, change, and ultimately use Excel to its full potential. Education in the classroom is also accompanied by Dr. Cooper’s current research in the ANP Consistency Index for the ANP Supermatrix, with particular interest to “focus more on behavioral operations management in the future. Newest Faculty Member takes on Analytical Tools Dr. Orrin Cooper 4 Mehdi Amini’s Research Published in Environmental Leader Report An article on a research project by Dr. Mehdi Amini, Professor in the Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management , has been published in the Environmental Leader’s 2012 Insider Knowledge Report. The project relates to sustainable supply chain management and focuses on the development of a Corporate Sustainability Framework. The report is sponsored by the Environmental Leader and Constellation Energy Company. It includes lessons learned from corporate environmental, sustainability and energy decision makers from organizations around the world. The article on Amini’s research is found on pages 28-29 of the report, in the Strategy and Leadership section. Amini worked on the project in conjunction with Dr. Carol Bienstock of Radford University. Visiting Scholar Earns Emerging Economies Doctoral Student Award Jighyasu Gaur , a visiting scholar in Fogelman’s Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management, has received the Emerging Economies Doctoral Student Award (EEDSA) 2012 from the Production and Operations Management Society (POMS). Gaur, a doctoral student at India’s Icfai Business School Hyderabad, visited the Fogelman College of Business & Economics during the 2011-2012 academic year. He worked with Dr. Mehdi Amini on his Ph.D. dissertation in the area of Sustainable Supply Chain Management. His research and teaching contributions extend nearly a decade at his current institution and at the Modi Institute of Technology in Kota, India. POMS is an international professional organization that represents the interests of production and operations management professionals from around the world. The Emerging Economies Doctoral Student Award is given annually to top doctoral students from countries in emerging markets. Liu, Babakus, and Shah Collaborate on Published Paper Gensheng (Jason) Liu and Emin Babakus, both of Fogelman’s Department of Marketing and Supply Chain Management along with Rachna Shah, associate professor at the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota, published the paper, “When to Mass Customize: The Impact of Environmental Uncertainty” in the October 2012 issue of Decision Sciences.In the study, they examine when mass customization is an appropriate strategy for ﬁrms to follow by scrutinizing the effects of three environmental uncertainty variables (demand uncertainty, competitive intensity, and supply chain complexity) on the MC- performance relationship. They examine six competing hypotheses using data collected from 266 manufacturing plants. Results show that competitive intensity has a direct positive impact on MC ability, and demand uncertainty moderates the relationship between MC ability and customer satisfaction. Implications of their research ﬁndings are discussed and future research directions are identiﬁed. Dr. Mehdi Amini Dr. Emin Babakus Dr. Gensheng Liu 5 6 Recent Works by Faculty and Ph.D. Graduates Forthcoming Articles Subhash Jha, George D. Deitz , Emin Babakus , and Ugur Yavas (2012), “The Role of Corporate Image for Quality in the Formation of Attitudinal Service Loyalty,” Journal of Service Research. Ugur Yavas, Emin Babakus , and Osman M. Karatepe (2012), “Does Hope Moderate the Impact of Job Burnout on Frontline Bank Employees’ In-role and Extra-role Performances?” International Journal of Bank Marketing. Tejinder K. Billing, Rabi S. Bhagat, and Emin Babakus (2012), “Task Structure and Work Outcomes: Exploring the Moderating Role of Emphasis on Scheduling,” Management Research Review. Tejinder K. Billing, Rabi S. Bhagat, Emin Babakus, Balaji Krishnan , David L. Ford Jr., B. N. Srivastava, Ujvala Rajadhyaksha, Mannsoo Shin, Ben Kuo, Catherine Kwantes Bernadette Setiadi, and Aizzat Mohd. Nasurdin (2012), “Work-Family Conﬂict and Psychological Strain: The Moderating Role of Decision Latitude in Five National Contexts,” Applied Psychology: An International Review. Kevin W. Westbrook, Emin Babakus , and Cori C. Grant (2012), “Measuring Patient- Perceived Hospital Service Quality: " Validity and Managerial Usefulness of HCAHPS Scales,” Health Marketing Quarterly. Ugur Yavas, Osman O. Karatepe, and Emin Babakus (2012), “Who is Likely to Quit Nursing Jobs? A Study in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus,” Health Marketing Quarterly. Ugur Yavas, Osman O. Karatepe, and Emin Babakus (2012), “Correlates of Non-Work and Work Satisfaction among Hotel Employees: Implications for Managers,” Journal of Hospitality Marketing and Management. Kirby L. J. Shannahan, Alan J. Bush, and Rachelle J. Shannahan (2012), “Are your salespeople coachable? How salesperson coachability, trait competitiveness, and transformational leadership enhance sales performance,” Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science. Rachelle J. Shannahan, Alan J. Bush, and Kirby L. J. Shannahan (2012), “Making Sense of the Customer’s Role in the Personal Selling Process: A Theory of Organizing and Sensemaking Perspective” Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Management. Marla B. Royne (Stafford), Jennifer Martinez, Jared Oakley, and Alexa Sullivan (2012), “The Effectiveness of Beneﬁt Type and Prices Endings in Green Advertising,” Journal of Advertising. Rachel Smith, George Deitz, Marla B. Royne (Stafford), John Hansen, Marko l L. Witte (2012), “A Cross-Cultural Examination of Online Shopping Behavior: A Comparison of Norway, Germany and the U.S.,” Journal of Business Research. Published Works Liu, Gensheng (Jason) , Rachna Shah, and Emin Babakus (2012), “A Fine-Grained Examination of Mass Customization’s Impact on Customer Satisfaction,” Decision Sciences, 43(5), 851-887. Osman M. Karatepe, Emin Babakus , and Ugur Yavas (2012), “Affectivity and Organizational Politics as Antecedents of Burnout Among Frontline Hotel Employees,” International Journal of Hospitality Management, 31 (1), 66-75. Babakus, Emin and Ugur Yavas (2012) Lead Article: “Customer Orientation as a Buffer Against Job Burnout,” The Service Industries Journal, 32 (1/2), 5-16. H. Li, and Mehdi Amini (2012), “A Hybrid Optimization Approach to Conﬁgure Supply Chain for New Product Diffusion: A Case Study of Multiple-Sourcing Strategy,” International Journal of Production Research, Vol. 50, No. 11, pp 3152-3171. Mehdi Amini , T. Wakolbinger, Michael Racer , and Moghaddam Nejad (2012), “New Product Diffusion in Presence of Supply Chain Capacity Constraint and Negative Word of Mouth: An Agent- Based Modeling and Simulation Approach,” European Journal of Operational Research, 216, pp 301-311. J. Bufﬁngton, Mehdi Amini , and K. Timur (2012), “Development of a Product Design and Supply-Chain Fulﬁllment System for Discontinuous Innovation,” International Journal of Production Research , Vol. 50, No. 14, pp 3776-3785. Jared Oakley and Alan J. Bush (2012), “Customer Entertainment in Relationship Marketing: A Literature Review and Directions for Future Research, Journal of Relationship Marketing, Vol. 11, Iss 1, pps.21-40. John Cicala, Rachel Smith, and Alan J. Bush (2012), “What Makes Sales Presentations Effective- A Buyer Seller Perspective,” Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing, Vol. 27, Iss 2, pp. 78-88.7 Student Appointed Position in American Marketing Association Alexa Sullivan, MSCM Ph.D. Student, has been appointed the Chair-Elect of the American Marketing Association DocSIG. The special interest group seeks to provide opportunities for marketing doctoral students to develop relationships, credentials, and competencies that aid in placement and career development. She begins her term as Chair-Elect on November 1, 2012 and will begin her term as Chair on November 1, 2013. Ph.D. Student Seminars Each semester, the Ph.D. students take the initiative among themselves to create a seminar schedule. They do so to create the specific benefits they need to further their education process while completing the Ph.D. program. The seminar schedules consist of a specific topic, and either a professor or Ph.D. speaking. Topics this semester include “Picking a Dissertation Topic,” “Creativity and Innovation in the Classroom,” “Summer Research Grant Proposals,” and a general breakdown of each candidate’s personal progress. Society for Marketing Advances Conference in Orlando Members of the Marketing Ph.D. Program are attending the SMA Conference in Orlando, Florida, which commemorates the 50th anniversary for the association. The Conference theme is “Leading the Way... Yesterday,Today, and Tomorrow” and includes presentations, competitions, seminars, and exhibits with the focus on marketing. The conference is October 31- November 3 and is hosted at the famous Disney Swan and Dolphin Resort. Jennifer Martinez Welcomes New Baby On October 15th, MSCM Ph.D. student Jennifer Martinez and her husband welcome their newborn son William Alexander Hutchins. He weighed nine pounds and three ounces and is 21 inches long. “This is certainly my biggest accomplishment since the birth of my daughter in August of last year- Lucille Campbell Hutchins,” Jennifer said proudly. Marketing Ph.D. Students Meet the Candidates 8 The selected team members included Megan Gwatney, Zachary White, Melissa Patten, and Elham Mohammed Supply Chain Team Hits the Road to Detroit By Dr. Shawn Jones On September 20, 2012, four Supply Chain Management majors travelled to Detroit, MI to represent the University of Memphis in the General Motors / Wayne State University Supply Chain Management Case Competition. The trip provided a mix of dozens of additional hours of academic preparation, facility tours, and opportunities to interview with top executives from GM and their major suppliers.Sixteen universities stretching across the United States met for the competition. The case involved a real- world challenge faced by GM: how do you accelerate production of a cutting- edge vehicle to gain ﬁrst-mover advantage in the marketplace when you have worldwide suppliers each facing their own constraints? The Memphis team provided an extensive plan to help GM improve their perception as an innovator in the automotive market while mitigating risk across suppliers. The judges lauded the proposal as the only one of the 16 teams who not only identiﬁed a primary plan, but also presented a contingency plan. After the scoring, the team came up one spot short of the ﬁnal round ﬁnishing in 5 th place overall. Considering the top four teams included such SCM juggernauts as Michigan State University and Penn State University, it’s a ﬁnish the team and the program are extremely proud of. The conference concluded with presentations and discussion time with GM and several of their supply chain partners including Lear, Delphi, Ryder, and Bridgestone. This brought the most rewarding part of the trip as executive after executive shared how impressed he or she was with the group from Memphis and praised the group’s preparation, professionalism, and passion for the ﬁeld. It was a trip that fostered new relationships for the program as well as potential employers for the students. The annual event will take place again in September 2013, so interested students should reach out to this year’s team and take notes on the keys to success. 9 Department Adds Social Commerce Minor This fall the MSCM Department launched a minor in Social Commerce. Using core and emerging social technologies built upon established marketing and communication principles, students will learn how to effectively engage consumers through technology-centric channels. Some of the concepts taught in the program include online listening and inﬂuence, virtual trust, social principles, digital currency, e- engagement, adoption drivers, and e-value chain and context. This brings to four the number of minors offered by the MSCM Department. 10 Faculty and Expertise 11