#http://www.memphis.edu/bitm/pdfs/newsletter/mis_newsletter2012v3.pdf
Faculty Activities and Accomplishments Dr. Tom Meservy wins University Award MIS Assistant Professor Tom Meservy was award- ed the University of Memphis Distinguished Teaching Award. This award is g iven to only four University of Mem- phis faculty each year, and is funded by the Alumni Association. Dr. Janz Honored Professor Brian Janz was recently named First Ten- nessee Professor. It is a rare distinction, awarded periodically to a very few faculty. The First Tennes- see Professorships were established early in 2005 as part of a partnership between the First Tennes- see Foundation and the U of M to help the Universi- ty recruit and retain out- standing faculty. Associate Professor Rob- in Poston was on faculty development leave recent- ly. She spent her time working in Silicon Valley with companies following agile testing methods to learn current software development techniques Dr. Simon forges im- portant DoD alliance The Department of De- fense is a major supporter through research grants and scholarships for Si- Center for Infor- mation Assurance, which fosters a research atmos- phere on matters of com- puter and information security awareness and professional careers. Dr. Jackson takes im- portant Executive Committee post on Faculty Senate Associate Professor Wade Jackson, who has been our regular presence on the Faculty Senate for years, has been elected Parliamentarian for the 2012 - 2013 year. Institutional Review Board Appointment Associate Professor Tom Stafford has joined the University of Memphis Institutional Review Board, applying his re- search methodology skills to the review of Universi- ty of Memphis research on Human Subjects. Dr. Brooks is funded for dual - enrollment program Dr. Lloyd Brooks was the Principal Investigator (PI) on a sponsored federal grant under the Carl Per- kins Act. Judy Brown and Brian Janz also par- ticipated in this initia- tive. The MIS Depart- ment partnered with Shel- by County Schools to offer MIS 2749, Founda- tion/Information Systems, for dual enrollment/dual credit during the Spring 2012 term. High school students in three high schools were permitted to enroll in MIS 2749 on a dual enrollment basis (earning credit for a college course and a high school course at the same time) providing they meet Universi- ty admissions standards and complete all activities normal- ly required for this course. This program was the first one of its type offered in the State of Tennessee. Dr. Simon earns Feder- al grant for Information Assurance Dr. Judy Si- mon served as Principal Investigator on a federal grant sponsored by the Department of Defense. The crease student awareness of Information Assurance topics (e.g., security and priva- cy). Student participants were recommended by faculty and approved as student work- ers. They spent the past year studying a wide range of rele- vant topics and developing materials for potential use in future courses. Six under- graduate students and two graduate students participated. Dr. Richardson wins eHealth grant Dr. Sandra Richardson, in collaboration with the Univer- Public Health, received a grant from the State of Ten- funding from the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technolo- gy (ONC). The goal is to evaluate the TN Health Infor- Web Access MIS Department Page Faculty Research Productivity STEP The Fogelman College Assessment MIS Department Newsletter Volume 1, Issue 1 Inside this issue: Faculty Activities 1 Faculty Accomplishments 1 AACSB and STEP 2 Community Service 3 AMIS Student Chapter 3 Advisory Board 3 Research 4 Fall 2012 Volume 1, Issue 1 Faculty Activities and Accomplishments, Contd. mation Exchange Evalua- tion Program (TNHIE) and provide feedback and guidance to the State for the future of the TNHIE program. The TNHIE program was established to ensure that providers have affordable and usa- ble options to meet new federal requirements for health information ex- change. Dr. Dhaliwal receives Federal funding for STEP MIS faculty, Jasbir Dhaliwal Director of STEP, Robin Poston Associate Director of STEP, Mark Gillenson and Tom Meservy worked with the Depart- ment of Defense to share knowledge about systems testing. During Fall 2011 and Spring 2012, the Uni- versity of Memphis STEP team completed a skills and competency analysis of 203 Defense Infor- mation Systems Agency (DISA) Test and Evaluation (T&E) profes- sionals. This effort in- volved customizing knowledge areas through site visits and administer- ing a survey that would form the basis of custom- ized training mod- ules. By improving the performance of the DISA T&E workforce, T&E professionals will be- come better equipped with the skills and com- petencies required to serve the Warfighter of the future. Over 250 DISA T&E professionals and their associates have received STEP Certifica- tion in Systems Testing from the University of Memphis. Department Hosts Guidance Counselors The MIS Department hosted guidance counse- lors from the Memphis City Schools in Spring 2012 to better acquaint them with careers in the IT field and the academic program offered by the department. Approxi- mately 100 guidance counselors attended, and they indicated that they now feel more informed about the IT field and the programs offered by the MIS Department. Lloyd Brooks, Brian Janz, Mark Gillenson and Shel- ley Ben- nett pro- vided presentations dur- ing this important event. AACSB Assessment MIS Department Chair and College Assessment Director Lloyd Brooks joined the 2012 Annual AACSB Assessment Conference, held March 20 22 in Houston, Tex- as. Dr. Brooks presented, Providing Effective As- sessment of Learning developing learning pro- grams to meet AACSB accreditation guidelines. The FCBE assessment site is found at http:// . fcbeassessment.net Welcome! Dr. Ling Xue has joined the MIS Department as an As- sistant Professor. Congratulations! Dr. Sandra Richardson has been awarded tenure as well as promotion to Associate Professor of Management Information Systems. MIS Department Newsletter Volume 1, Issue 1 Web Access MIS Department Page Faculty Research Productivity STEP The Fogelman College Assessment Page 2 Page 3 MIS Department Newsletter Volume 1, Issue 1 Future Business Leaders of America The MIS Department host- ed 560 high school stu- dents enrolled in Future Business Leaders of Amer- i c a ( F B L A ) p r o g r a m s a t Memphis - area high schools. The com- petitive events were held on February 17 with an awards banquet in the Hol- i d a y I n n o n c a m p u s o n February 21, where Dean Rajiv Grover provided opening remarks. MIS faculty involved included Lloyd Brooks, Bill Ket- tinger, Ted Lee, Tom Meservy, Margaret Schultz and Tom Stafford. Stu- dents participated in com- petitive business events such as database, public speaking, job interview, presentation graphics, en- trepreneurship, and project management. Organizational Affilia- tions Department Chairman Lloyd Brooks has joined the Executive committee of the Society for Infor- mation Management. AMIS Award student chapter of the As- sociation for Management Information Systems (AMIS) won third place in a contest in Provo, Utah, hosted by the international Association for Infor- mation Systems (AIS) in Spring 2012. Team mem- bers included Brittany Ar- nold, Joseph Borwick, Max Zhiglov, Nicole Smith, and Teresa Wells. Faculty sponsors were Drs. Wade Jackson, Tom Meservy, andMargaret Schultz. MIS Advisory Council Two companies on our MIS Advisory Council have been named to the Information Week 500 most innovative companies in the USA. First Horizon was ranked #1 in banking and #14 overall. FedEx was ranked #35 overall. Bruce Livesay has become the council chair this year, leading an extensive range of senior executives from organizations including : ServicMaster FTN Financial TruGreen Merck Allenberg EMC Thomas & Betts KPMG International Paper IBM First Horizon Methodist Healthcare First Horizon Sedgwick Claims Management Hastham FedEx Hilton Hotels City of Memphis Buckman Labs Memphis Daily News Pinnacle Air MLGW Impact Counseling Electronic Vaulting Services Tennman Digital Evergreen Packaging Emerge Memphis Crye Leike Reality Morgan Keegan Verified Person Contact Information: - Departmental Activities Faculty Community Service Brown appointed Presi- dent of Arts Council Assistant Professor Judy Brown was elected as 2012 President of the Ger- mantown Arts Alliance. The Germantown Arts Alliance is an advocacy and funding organization whose mission is to pro- mote and enrich cultural arts in Germantown. Stafford joins Hooks Institute Dr. Tom Stafford has joined the Benjamin Hooks Institute for Social Change as an Advisory Board Member. The Hooks Institute promotes diversity and inclusion in the Midsouth Region. Yang Yang (Ph.D. 2008), along with Professors Staf- ford and Gillenson pub- Satisfaction with Employee Relationship Management Systems: The Impact of Usefulness on Systems Quality Percep- n European Jour- nal of Information Systems (20:2). Faculty Publishing Professor Mark L. Gillen- son recently published the second edition of his cur- rent database manage- ment textbook: Funda- mentals of Database Man- agement Systems , 2nd edi- tion, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2012. This is the se- cond edition of Prof. Gil- lenson's third book on da- tabase management. Bill Kettinger, along with colleagues Chen Zhang and Don Marchand, pub- Executive Leadership Ap- proaches to Establishing Company - Wide Infor- MIS Quarterly Executive (10:4). Judy Simon, along with Kaiser, Goles, Hawk and Frampton from other uni- versities, published Skills Differences Between High - Wage and Low - Wage Regions: Implica- tions for Global Sourc- Student Publishing Ph.D. student Jignya Pa- tel, along with Drs. Poston and Dhaliwal, had a paper accepted in the 2012 European Con- ference on Information Systems ware Testing Assessment to Manage Project Testa- Graduate Publishing (Ph.D. 2009) along with Professors Dhaliwal, Gil- lenson and Stafford have of Conflict Judgments between Developers and Testers in Software De- Journal of Database Management. This article was one of the first pieces to reach tation research. Paul is with the University of North Alabama in Flor- ence. Colin Onita (Ph.D. 2010), along with cohort mem- ber Paul Zhang and Pro- fessors Dhaliwal and Poston, have published "Alignment within the software development unit: Assessing structural and relational dimensions between developers and testers," in the Journal of Strategic Information Systems (20:4). Colin is on the faculty at Univer- sity of Akron. - rated Com- munications of the Associ- a t i o n f o r I n f o r m a t i o n S y s- tems (29:1). Post - Doctoral Fellow Insu Effect of Pre - and Post - Service Performance on Consumer Evaluation of Deci- sion Support Systems (52:2). Mark Gillenson, along with Peter Aiken of Vir- ginia Commonwealth Uni- versity, Paul Zhang of the University of North Ala- bama, and David Rafner, published "Data Manage- ment and Data Admin- istration: Assessing 25 Years of Practice," in the A - rated Journal of Data- base Management ( 22:3). T. Hu, Robin Poston, and Bill Kettinger published - adopters of Online Social Network Services: Is It Easy to Have Fun Yet?" in Communications of the Association for In- formation Systems , 2011, (29:25). Radhika Jain, Robin Poston, and Judy Simon Investigation of Client ties in Managing Offshore Outsourcing of Software IEEE Research Productivity Fogelman College of Business and Economics MIS Department University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 901678 - 4613 Web Access MIS Department Page Faculty Research Productivity STEP The Fogelman College Assessment Page 4 MIS Department Newsletter Volume 1, Issue 1 Transactions on Engineering Management, 2011, (58:4). Radhika Jain, Judy Simon, and Robin Poston published in Offshore Outsourcing to India: An Empirical Investi- Journal of Management Information Systems , 2011, (27:4).