#http://www.memphis.edu/conferences/pdf/vems_for_faculty_staff.pdf
1 HOW TO SCHEDULE AN EVENT USING VIR EMS WEB TOOL. Virtual EMS is used to request event space at the University of Memphis by internal clients. It is accessible to all Faculty and Staff and members of designated Registered Student Organizations. For more information, please contact scheduling@memphis.edu or call the Scheduling Office at 901-678- 5000. 1.Using , Go to Account/ Login. Use your University user id and password 2.Click on RESERVATIONS and drop down to choose the role forwhich you are scheduling the event. Ex: for .3.Start with the "Where and When" section: a.Under "date" enter the date of your event b.Next enter the start time of your event. The end time is automatically set for 1 hour, but may be adjusted to your needs. c.Using the drop down, select the building or location you wish to search. If you wish to search multiple, then use the magnifying glass icon to select more. d.Continue under "Setup Information" to enter number of attendees which will relate to . [You can also check Magnifying glass can pull up several BUILDINGS to check for Multiple. What typ e you choose may relate to the space that is availab le with the attendan ce you choose. Ex: Classroom vs. Existing Set. UC 338 has no Existing Set so will not show up. 2 e.RECURRE NCE: In the event you want to book an event for the same time on a number of different days, you may go to the "Recurrence" button and select the date pattern you want the event to meet. (When you use recurrence you may limit the number of spaces available to you, because a location may be available on one date and not on another). Ex: you may want to schedule a meeting the first Wednesday of every month for 6 months starting July 4 th usual maximum time period for advance reservations] f.Click to Continue. 4.Click on the blue lettered name of the room to learn more about the rooms that are available. Select any of the rooms that meet your needs by clicking on the green + sign. You may select up to 5 rooms, if you want them for the same building, date and time that you specified. Your choice will then be moved up to the Selected Locations portion of the page. Notice the red X next to it, if you change your mind and wish to cancel this room, press the X. You may also change any data in your request and look for available spaces in other buildings, dates, times, or setups. Click green to select room Indicates room is not free during this time. 3 5.Once you have your selected room/rooms, click t he"Details" tab to continue. 6.Event Details: a.Event Name: give your event a name. b.Event Type: select a type from the drop down. [N - Master Calendar. And this might not always be advisable.] 7.Client Details: If this is your first time to enter an event,you will need to pull up your client name. Click on the magnifying glass to look up. All Universityof Memphis departments/organizations will beginwith uofm to search and at least first part of your Org name. Scroll down to find your Organization.Ex: uofm aluma.Use for Groups if you cannot recall how your Organization was named. b.Once you have selected it, it will now appear in your drop down to choose. Next time it will be listed in the default for your drop down. c.Next you can choose your Contact information from the drop down which will m so if you need to addyourself, please contact the SchedulingOffice]8.Other Information : fill in information as it may apply. Also any special set up notes. 9. Click red to remove selection. . 4 1.You will automatically receive an email notification verifying that you have requested an Event Space. Also you will receive a follow up email on any Status change. a.It will return a page with reservation details including booking details . Please review for any inconsistencies. Click on any of the blue hyperlinks for additional actions regarding your reservation. 11.VIEW YOUR REQUESTS . To view your pending requests for event spac e, onc e you have logged into the page, go to RESERVATIONS and choose the drop down f or [see #2 above] If you click on the blue link that will take you to that particular reservation. [See above]. Most important to note is the STATUS of you reservation. Ex: these two are still in RequestStatus They have not been approved or denied. Click on the that have passed . The one below shows that the Stat us is Confirmed Reservation . NOTE: For APPROVERS of space, this would show up for spaces you have responsibility for appr this same Reservation. of the Bookings and it will require a reason o personal the date and time. It will warn you if the space in not available for that change. . 5 12.VIEW RESERVATION SUMMARY : After See above]. That will return a form with options to print the summar y or email it to individuals. 13.BROWSING : You can go and Facilities You can choose various Filters to further define your search: dat e, type, buildings, etc. However, t drop down. Check the and that will open up a new window where you can add or dele te email recipients to send details on your event. 6 HELP : To obtain further assistance you can call the Help Desk at 901 -678-8888, call the Scheduling Office at 901-678 -5000, or email them at scheduling@memphis.edu Icons within the site for helpful hints and information. 14.LOGOUT : when done. Please log out of the session. My Account/Logout. EVENT FACILITIES SPACE LOCATE GROUP