#http://www.memphis.edu/conferences/pdf/vems_for_approvers.pdf
1 Make sure to: Web Requests, Reconfirm Dates and Building Hours Exceptions = Never All the rest are fine with EMS CAMPUS WIDE: WEB CLIENT INSTRUCTIONS FOR APPROVERS Approvers are individuals from various Departments and/or Divisions who have responsibility over certain areas to approve requests for space in that area. This documentation is to provide access to the EMS Web Client to review the request and change the status. For more information, please contact scheduling@memphis.edu or call the Scheduling Office at 901-678-5000. 1.Run Internet Explorer Browser and go to 2.Login with your University ID and password. 3.Look for the Should be blinking or solid red to let you know you have a pending request. 4.DASHBOARD: Click on Dashboard to open in a new window. If this is your first time, click on Options on the upper right hand corner of the page to set up your Dashboard for the best notifications. It should look like this: Click OK. 2 a.Notifications = Web Reservations b.Type/ Area = All Spaces .c.Status = Web Request. d.NOTE: presently these settings will not stay with your profile and must be reset each time. 6.Then, highlight the event you want to view and click to bring any up any still Status. Or you can filter by scrolling down to a building space. Next o down to the areas on the left and set:5. 3 Use Drop Down to choose: = being considered for approval. =Cancel the request. = Request approved. = Conflict during that date/time. = still in request status. 7.Here you will see the whole Reservation and the Bookings below. 8.Change Status to Reservation : to change the st atus for the as a whole, highlight the Reservation and click on . an use the drop down to change the Status to Confirmed which will confirm the space. Then click Next . That will open the Booking Status Wizard. Here you can select the Booking/Bookings you want to act upon. a.If you Choose you will get a pop up box for choices. i.Reason: choose from drop down ii.Who Cancelled is Required Field iii. Notes: further information on why. Required Field. Ok to continue. [Confirmed and require no further information] Bookings Reservation 4 9.Booking Status Wizard : Select to approve. And then click Finish .ill return a Change of Status confirmation. 10.EXIT FROM DASHBOARD. Click on the red x in the upper right corner of the screen to return to the main page. 11.NOTIFICATION: You w ill receive an email notifying you of a pending Use the it up in your Dashboard .12.SEARCHING: you can search for a pending request by using the portion of your tool bar: or individual email which ones to approve if several. 5 13. Reservation No.: insert the Reservation number window. [See # 7 above] Click on Confirmation from the choices in the Repot Setup drop down 6 This is all you should need to do to approve a request. To make a booking request yourself, Approvers are advised go to For more information on using Web EMS, consult the Advanced Tools Documentation. HELP : To obtain further assistance you can call the Help Desk at 901 -678-8888, call the Scheduling Office at 901-678 -5000, or email them at scheduling@memphis.edu Icons within the site for helpful hints and information. 14.LOGOUT: Please use the drop down for and when done. You can choose who to send to In Design you can add additional text if necessary