#http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/edpr/quant_cert.php
Quantitative Certificate - CEPR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Counseling, Educational Psychology &amp; Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Ed Psych &amp; Research Faculty Research EDPR Menu Degrees &amp; Certificates M.S. Online M.S. Ph.D. Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Research Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions Apply M.S. Application M.S. Online Application Ph.D. Application International Students Graduate Assistantships Graduate Catalog Research EDPR Colloquia A-Team Childhood Study Group QUIC SPIRIT Professional Associations Statistical Consulting Undergraduate Educational Research Team View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Home CEPR EDPR Quantitative Certificate Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Methods (GCQM) This 15-credit-hour certificate program is constructed to provide students with formal training in quantitative research methods and data analysis in the social sciences and prepare them for a variety of employment opportunities in private and public sectors. The certificate program will be open to all graduate students at The University of Memphis and graduate students from other institutions. Students will receive a certificate in quantitative methods upon completion of the requirements. Graduates of the certificate program will be prepared to: Design a wide range of research studies and program evaluations, both observational and experimental in nature Build or validate measures for social and psychological constructs based on psychometric theory and models Apply appropriate statistical analyses to various data sources for descriptive and inferential purposes Use computer software to implement a wide range of univariate and multivariate statistical routines Translate statistical evidence into usable information for stakeholders Successful applicants must: have a minimum GPA of 3.0 have completed EDPR 7521 and EDPR 7/8541 on campus (or equivalent to be approved by program--for transfer students only) with a grade of B or above submit a 2-3 page personal essay that discusses your research interests, prior preparation and experience related to this certificate program, and your long-range career/professional plans complete the Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Methods Application Form Following a review, your application will be either approved or returned to you for further discussion and revision. If you have any questions about the application process, please contact Dr. Yonghong Jade Xu or Dr. Leigh Harrell-Williams Certificate Coordinators Dr. Yondhong Jade Xu Dr. Leigh Harrell-Williams Submit all application materials to: Jennifer Mueller 100 Ball Hall University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Certificate Course Requirements Prerequisites: EDPR 7/8541 or equivalent and EDPR 7521 or equivalent. The certificate requires 15 semester hours of credit. Below are the required and elective courses available to students: Required core courses (6 credits): EDPR 7/8542: Statistical Methods Applied to Education II EDPR 7/8511: Introduction to Measurement and Evaluation Electives (9 credits are selected from): EDPR 8549: Multivariate Metholds in Education EDPR 8544: Application of Multiple Regression EDPR 7/8531: Computer as a Research Tool EDPR 7/8543: Research Design and Analysis EDPR 7/8512: Psychometric Theory If a student feels that a course outside of EDPR is appropriate as an elective, the student can complete the Petition for Elective form to be reviewed and approved by the quantitative coordinators. EDPR Menu Degrees &amp; Certificates M.S. Online M.S. Ph.D. Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Research Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions Apply M.S. Application M.S. Online Application Ph.D. Application International Students Graduate Assistantships Graduate Catalog Research EDPR Colloquia A-Team Childhood Study Group QUIC SPIRIT Professional Associations Statistical Consulting Undergraduate Educational Research Team View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Admissions Current Students Student Organizations Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .