#http://www.memphis.edu/accountancy/faculty/cspice.php
CHARLENE SPICELAND - ACCT - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - School of Accountancy Welcome Programs Admissions Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Publications FCBE Faculty Welcome Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Admissions Getting Started Financial Assistance Application Form Networking &amp; Career Development Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Courses Offered Undergraduate Graduate Course Syllabi Publications Contact Us Home ACCT Faculty CHARLENE SPICELAND CHARLENE SPICELAND Assistant Professor, School of Accountancy Phone 901.678.4788 Email cspice@memphis.edu Fax Office FCB 201 Office Hours by appointment Website Biography To pursue her passion for teaching, Charlene Spiceland retired in 2008 as Chief Financial Officer of EFS Transportation, a division of First Data Corporation. Prior to embarking on her accounting career, she owned and operated Tennessee Moving and Storage Corporation. Later, her love of accounting led to her earning her Master of Science in Accounting Systems at the University of Memphis. (She previously had earned a M.Ed.–Mathematics Education, also at the UofM.) Her accounting career began with a brief stint as a tax analyst for International Paper. Later positions included Accounting Officer, External Reporting and Disclosure at First Horizon Corporation, where she headed the group responsible for Sarbanes-Oxley compliance as well as Controller positions at the Memphis Group and Concord EFS. While an Instructor at the UofM, she served as Executive Assistant to the Director of the School of Accountancy and earned her Ph.D. in May of 2013. Dr. Spiceland is a Certified Public Accountant and Certified Management Accountant. She is a member of the Tennessee State Board of Accountancy. She also is a member of the Tennessee Society of CPA's and the Institute of Management Accountants. She has been president of the MidSouth chapter of the IMA and led the chapter to 1st place among all chapters nationally. Charlene Spiceland teaches a wide variety of courses in the School of Accountancy and is the Director of the College's Executive MBA Program. Her publication interests are focused on three research streams: healthcare accounting, financial accounting, and accounting education. She is a Research Fellow of the Methodist Le Bonheur Center for Health Care. Teaching Awards University Honors Program's Excellence in Teaching Award – University of Memphis, 2014 Alumni Association Distinguished Teaching Award (finalist) – University of Memphis, 2014 Sigma Chi Fraternity Teaching Award – University of Memphis, 2014 Creative Teaching Excellence Award – Fogelman College of Business and Economics, 2013 Thomas W. Briggs Foundation Excellence in Teaching Award – University of Memphis, 2011 Honors Teacher of the Year Award – Fogelman College of Business and Economics, 2011 Course Redesign Fellowship Grant – University of Memphis, 2011 Course Redesign Fellowship Grant – University of Memphis, 2010 Research J ournal Articles Spiceland, C.P., L. Y. Yang, J. H., Zhang, "Accounting Quality, Debt Covenant Design, and the Cost of Debt," Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting , forthcoming, 2016. Callahan, C.M., C.P. Spiceland, J.D. Spiceland, and S. Hairston, "A Teaching Practicum/Professional Development Course as an Integral Component of a PhD Program," Issues in Accounting Education , forthcoming, 2015. Spiceland, C.P., J.D. Spiceland, and S.J. Schaeffer, “Using a Course Redesign to Address Retention and Performance Issues in Introductory Accounting,” Journal of Accounting Education , forthcoming, Volume 33, Issue 1, 2015. Spiceland, C.P., J.D. Spiceland, and P.J. Njoroge, “Linking Healthcare Quality to the Bottom Line: What Do We Know?” International Journal of Management Accounting Research , Volume 4, Issue 2, 2015, pp. 111-132 [lead article]. Smith, D.F., C.P. Spiceland, K. Mattare, and S.L. Ishman, "Financial Incentive of Home–Continuous Positive Airway Pressure Machine Use in the Inpatient Hospital Setting,” The Laryngoscope , February 2014. Spiceland, J.D. and C.P. Spiceland, "The Impact on Learning of an Asynchronous Active Learning Course Format,” The Journal of Asynchronous Learning Networks , 6(1), July, 2002. Callahan, C.M., C.P. Spiceland, J.D. Spiceland, and Stephanie Hairston, “A Teaching Practicum/Professional Development Course as an Integral Component of a PhD Program,” under third round review at Issues in Accounting Education. Peer-Reviewed Presentations Spiceland, C.P., J.D. Spiceland, and S.J. Schaeffer, “Retention Rate and Performance Impact of Core Competency Focus and Contemporary Learning Technologies,” Southeast Regional Meeting of the American Accounting Association (April 4, 2014) . Callahan, C.M., C.P. Spiceland, J.D. Spiceland, and Stephanie Hairston, “Pilot Course: A Teaching Practicum/Professional Development Course as an Integral Component of a PhD Program,” Southeast Regional Meeting of the American Accounting Association (April 3, 2014) . Smith D.F., Spiceland C.P., Clough L., Mattare K., Ishman S.L. Financial Incentive of Home Continuous Positive Pressure Machine Use in the Inpatient Hospital Setting. Oral Presentation - Triological Society/Combined Otolaryngology Sections Meeting (COSM). Miami, FL. Jan 10, 2014. Smith, D.F., C.P. Spiceland, K. Mattare, and S.L. Ishman, "Financial Incentive of Home–Continuous Positive Airway Pressure Machine Use in the Inpatient Hospital Setting” awarded second place among papers presented at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine Head and Neck Surgery Annual Resident Research Symposium , Baltimore, MD. June 8, 2013. Spiceland, C.P., “Accounting Can Be Fun! Effective Learning Strategies,” Poster presentation Southeast Regional Meeting of the American Accounting Association , May 5, 2013. Callahan, C.M., C.P. Spiceland and J.D. Spiceland, “The Usefulness of Earnings Quality for Nonprofit Hospitals and the Effect on Donations,” Annual Meeting of the American Accounting Association (August 2012). Callahan, C.M., C.P. Spiceland and J.D. Spiceland, “The Quality of Earnings in Nonprofit Hospitals,” abstract published in the Proceedings of the Government Nonprofit Midyear Meeting of the American Accounting Association (March 2012). Spiceland, C.P., " VideoSurf Technology in Introductory Accounting," AAA’s Second Annual Conference on Teaching and Learning in Accounting (CTLA) , August 3, 2009. Spiceland, C.P., "Teaching Tips: Incorporating Greater Understanding Devices (GUDS) in Introductory Accounting," American Accounting Association’s Second Annual Conference on Teaching and Learning in Accounting (CTLA) , August 2, 2009. To see Dr. Spiceland’s curriculum vitae , click here . Faculty Welcome Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Admissions Getting Started Financial Assistance Application Form Networking &amp; Career Development Faculty Courses &amp; Syllabi Courses Offered Undergraduate Graduate Course Syllabi Publications Contact Us Networking &amp; Career Development Learn more about two important keys to career success! Financial Assistance Looking for financial assistance? Try looking here first! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/27/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .