#http://www.memphis.edu/biology/scholarships/
Scholarship Resources for Department of Biological Sciences - Biological Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Graduate Centers People Research Events Scholarships Scholarships Information Undergraduate Graduate Make a Gift to the Bill Simco Graduate Research Scholarship Scholarship Recipients Tiger Scholarship Manager Guidelines MyMemphis Portal Contact Committee Chairman Home Biological Sciences Scholarships Undergraduate Scholarship Information Please Visit the University of Memphis Scholarship Website IN ADDITION to reviewing this page The Botany Scholarship Applicants must meet the following requirements: Major in Biology, with preference given to a student with interests in Botany Applicants must provide: A completed application with essay Two recommendations from faculty in the Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate transcript The Edward T. Browne Biology Scholarship Applicants must meet the following requirements: Major in Biology Sophomore, Junior, or Senior classification Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25 or demonstrated potential for academic distinction in Biology Full-time status (12 credit hours) Applicants must provide: A completed application with essay Two recommendations from faculty in the Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate transcript The Goldye Feinstone Scholarship Applicants must meet the following requirements: Major in Biology, with preference given to a student with interest in microbiology or molecular cell sciences Sophomore, Junior, or Senior classification Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25 or demonstrated potential for academic distinction in Biology Academic and research achievements as well as potential for professional success Leadership ability Full-time status (12 credit hours) Applicants must provide: A completed application with essay Two recommendations from faculty in the Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate transcript The Dr. Virginia M. Norton and Dan Norton Scholarship Applicants must meet the following requirements: Major in Biology, with an expressed interest in a career in Health Science Junior or Senior classification Applicants must provide: A completed application with essay Two recommendations from faculty in the Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate transcript The Priscilla Rushton Scholarship Applicants must meet the following requirements: Major in Biology Sophomore, Junior, or Senior classification Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25 or demonstrated potential for academic distinction in Biology Leadership ability and strong potential for professional success Full-time status (12 credit hours) Applicants must provide: A completed application with essay Two recommendations from faculty in the Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate transcript The Elizabeth K. Perryman Scholarship Applicants must meet the following requirements: Full-time status (minimum 12 credit hours) Major in Biology with preference given to a student with interest in cell and molecular biology, microbiology, or health science Sophomore, Junior, or Senior classification Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00 Must have demonstrated valuable service to the community or university, preferably for women's equity Preference may be given to an applicant who is first-generation university educated or has a disadvantaged background Applicants must provide: A completed application with essay Two recommendations from faculty in the Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate transcript The Omar E. Smith Ecology Scholarship Applicants must meet the following requirements: Major in Biology, with preference given to students in Ecology Develop an ecological research project to be conducted under the guidance of a faculty member in the Department of Biological Sciences Applicants must provide: A completed application A brief (one page) description of proposed ecological research project Undergraduate transcript Successful candidates for this scholarship will: Enroll for two credit hours of Biology Research (BIOL 4000) under the Biological Sciences faculty member directing the ecological research Provide a final, written report upon completion of the project Eligibility To be eligible to apply for any of the Department of Biological Sciences scholarships, students must have successfully completed General Biology I and II. In addition all students must be enrolled full-time with a declared major in the Department of Biological Sciences during the semesters in which they hold any of these scholarships. Applications should be submitted online at the Tiger Scholarship Manager , accessible through your myMemphis portal . Students must provide a complete application, including an undergraduate transcript and an essay describing your academic goals and career plans and explaining how this scholarship would assist in attaining these goals. Provide information on experiences and activities that you believe would be helpful to the scholarship committee as it considers your application. Examples might include work experience and volunteer activities. Faculty recommendations are requested and submitted through Tiger Scholarship Manager. Please ensure that you have the correct e-mail address for the faculty members you are requesting to provide a recommendation on your behalf. Scholarships Information Undergraduate Graduate Make a Gift to the Bill Simco Graduate Research Scholarship Scholarship Recipients Tiger Scholarship Manager Guidelines MyMemphis Portal Contact Committee Chairman Biology@Memphis Newsletter Read about graduate and undergraduate student news; awards, grants and scholarships; publications, and more... Administration Budgets, accounting, facilities management, committees, meetings, and group email accounts Facilities Not your ordinary classrooms... Contact Us Main office contacts, faculty and staff administration Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .