#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbeusso/honors/
The Fogelman Honors Program - FCBE USSO - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Undergraduate Student Services Welcome Advising Graduation Permits Majors/Minors Honors FCBE Honors Program Academics Honors Program Majors and Minors BBA Degree Learning Outcomes BBA Accountancy Degree Learning Outcomes FCBE Internships MOS Exam Information CLEP Testing Fogelman Professional Development Center Advising How to Get Advised Make an Online Appointment Join Our Text Messaging Service Request Email Advising Request Permit Advising Handbook Graduation Forms Important Dates &amp; Events FCBE Scholarships Study Abroad Options Contact Us Home FCBE USSO Honors Program The Fogelman Honors Program What is special about the Fogelman Honors Program? We assign our best, most student-friendly instructors to teach honors courses. We make an effort to limit enrollment in honors courses, so that students can more effectively interact with their instructors and classmates. Associating with other smart, hard-working, and ambitious students brings out the best in you. Friendships made in honors courses last a lifetime. Honors instructors use a variety of techniques, including guest speakers, student involvement in research activities, field trips, group projects, and the application of skills learned in class to the solution of real-world business and social problems, to provide an enriching educational experience. Honors students are encouraged to participate in the MILE program, Toastmasters, and the numerous other “beyond the classroom” experiences that are provided by the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. They are assisted in applying for scholarships and internships. Students may participate in the Fogelman Honors Program while participating in the Helen Hardin University Honors Program. What are the requirements for participating in the Fogelman Honors Program? Incoming freshmen with a 27 or better on the ACT or the equivalent on other tests are eligible to enroll in the Fogelman College’s lower-division honors courses. Transfer students or students currently enrolled in The University of Memphis are eligible to enroll in the college’s lower-division honors courses if they have an overall g.p.a. of at least 3.0 or the recommendation of a faculty member. Students must have a g.p.a. of at least 3.25 in all Business courses and an overall g.p.a. of at least 3.0 to enroll in upper-division honors courses offered by the Fogelman College. Retention in the honors program requires that a student maintain at least a 3.0 overall g.p.a. and at least a 3.25 g.p.a. in all Business courses. In order to receive honors credit for any Business course, a grade of at least “B” is required. Do I receive recognition for participation in the Fogelman Honors Program? “Honors in Business and Economics” will appear on your transcript and diploma if you complete the required number of Business honors courses with a grade of at least “B”, maintain the required g.p.a. in Business courses and the required overall g.p.a., and either write an honors thesis or participate in two honors experiences approved by the Director of the Fogelman Honors Program. The specifics of these requirements can be obtained from the Director of the Fogelman Honors Program. Students who do not meet these requirements, but have completed a minimum of four Business honors courses with a grade of at least “B” in each, will receive a “Certificate of Achievement” in Business Honors. What is the purpose of the Honors Program in The Fogelman College of Business and Economics? The Fogelman Honors Program is designed to provide the college’s best student enriching academic, cultural, and social experiences, to assist them in their efforts to obtain satisfying employment and advance in their careers, and to participate in their development as well-rounded people who will live happy, meaningful, and productive lives. What if I have questions about the Fogelman Honors Program? Contact Irvin L. Tankersley, J.D., Director of the Fogelman Honors Program (678-4635, itnkrsly@memphis.edu ), with questions about honors program requirements. Contact Mary Johnson, BSEd, Honors Advisor (678-4070, mjohnson@memphis.edu ), for information about registering for honors courses or for academic advising. Are there additional documents covering the Fogelman Honors Program? Application For Membership Honors Thesis Honors Program's Experience Option Contract Information for the Honors Program Testimonials about the Fogelman Honors Program "What the Fogelman College Honors Programs Means to Me." by William Henderson 2015's FCBE 4th Annual Business Honors Banquet Honors Program Academics Honors Program Majors and Minors BBA Degree Learning Outcomes BBA Accountancy Degree Learning Outcomes FCBE Internships MOS Exam Information CLEP Testing Fogelman Professional Development Center Advising How to Get Advised Make an Online Appointment Join Our Text Messaging Service Request Email Advising Request Permit Advising Handbook Graduation Forms Important Dates &amp; Events FCBE Scholarships Study Abroad Options Contact Us Request Advising Don't forget to get advised before registering for classes! Forms Need a form? We have you covered! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .