#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/bus/
Fogelman College of Business and Economics - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Fogelman College of Business and Economics RAJIV GROVER, PhD Dean LLOYD BROOKS, PhD Interim Associate Dean, Programs and Research BALAJI KRISHNAN, PhD Director of MBA Programs 901.678.2786 STEPHANIE STRINGER International MBA Advisor 901.678.3499 MARJA MARTIN Professional MBA Advisor and Online MBA Advisor 901.678.3405 MBA Programs Office 901.678.3721 JACQUELINE WOODALL PhD Coordinator 901.678.5250 fcbephd@memphis.edu E-mail: FCBEGP@memphis.edu GRADUATE ACADEMIC PROGRAMS Department Major Concentration Within Major Degree Offered Accountancy Accounting (1) Accounting (2) Healthcare Accounting (3) Taxation Master of Science (MS) Economics Economics Master of Arts (MA) Fogelman College of Business and Economics (Interdepartmental) Business Administration (1) Finance (2) Hospitality and Resort Management (3) Business Information Technology (4) Real Estate Master of Science (MS) Master of Business Administration (MBA) (1) Biomedical Management (2) Executive (3) Entrepreneurship (4) Financial Services (5) Law (6) Professional (7) Services Marketing Master of Business Administration (MBA) (1) Accounting (2) Economics (3) Finance (4) Management (5) Management Information Systems (6) Marketing Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)* Business Administration International Business Administration (IMBA) *Some concentrations may not admit students to the doctoral program every year. Interested applicants should contact department PhD coordinators before applying to the program. Individual program requirements described in The University of Memphis Graduate Catalog, 2015 - 2016, are subject to change. Please consult the college office for changes that may occur before publication of the next issue of this Catalog. Every graduate student must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued (see departmental listings in this section). The Fogelman College of Business and Economics is one of the premier schools of business in the Mid-South and is fully accredited by the AACSB-International, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. AACSB-International accreditation represents the highest standard of achievement for business schools worldwide. Institutions that earn accreditation confirm their commitment to quality and continuous improvement through a rigorous and comprehensive peer review. The Fogelman College is also home to the Robert Wang Center for International Business, one of only 30 Centers for International Business and Education Research (CIBER), as designated by the US Department of Education. Other significant initiatives and centers that promote business research and outreach to the business community include the Bureau of Business and Economic Research, the Center for Supply Chain Management and the Center for Managing Emerging Technology at the FedEx Technology Institute, and the Institute for the Study of Securities Markets. In addition, ten Chairs of Excellence and two Distinguished Professors are on the faculty in the School of Accountancy and the Departments of Economics; Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate; Management Information Systems; Management; and Marketing and Supply Chain Management. The mission of the Fogelman College is to offer business education to a diverse student population by teaching a rigorous and relevant business curriculum, supported and strengthened by research and community outreach. Graduate degree programs serve the workforce needs of the Mid-South region and beyond. Specifically, through the MBA program as well as the Executive MBA, International MBA, and other masters programs, the College prepares students for leadership roles in the technology-driven and globally competitive marketplace. The College offers a PhD program in Business Administration in selected areas to prepare students for teaching, research, or professional careers while serving as a research catalyst to stimulate faculty scholarly endeavors. MASTERS DEGREE PROGRAMS The Fogelman College of Business and Economics offers five MBA programs, the Master of Science with a major in Business Administration and three concentrations, the Master of Science in Accounting, and a Master of Arts in Economics. The Professional MBA program is designed for full-time professionals who are interested in taking part-time classes to accommodate their busy schedules (although students may enroll on a full-time basis). Classes are offered in the evening. At least one year of full-time work experience is highly recommended prior to admission. Students typically choose one of the approved concentrations listed below to acquire additional professional expertise. However, students may choose a 33-credit-hour, no-concentration option if desired. The MBA with a Biomedical Management concentration is a 45-credit-hour program designed for full-time students interested in managerial positions in the biomedical industry, with classes offered during the day and evening. A three-credit-hour internship with a sponsoring company may be required. The MBA with a Professional concentration is a 45-credit-hour program designed for students who want maximum flexibility in creating an area of expertise for themselves. With advice from the program director, faculty, and industry stakeholders, students take 15-credit-hours of elective courses that are most influential for their career aspirations. The MBA with a Law concentration allows the student to concurrently earn an MBA and the JD. The student must be admitted to both the Fogelman College MBA program and the JD program in the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law. The MBA with an Entrepreneurship concentration is a 45-credit-hour program designed for students interested in entrepreneurial ventures, with classes offered during the day and in the evening. A three-credit-hour directed study in developing a business plan for a new venture may be required. The MBA with a Services Marketing concentration is a 45-credit-hour program designed for students interested in managerial positions in the services marketing industry, with classes offered during the day and in the evening. A three-credit-hour internship with a sponsoring company may be required. The Customer-Driven MBA program is a full-time, fixed track, 21-month program designed for students interested in working for specific area companies in a specific industry. Students enroll on a full-time basis and take classes during the day and evening. Students enroll in an approved MBA concentration; company-sponsored assistantships and internships/independent studies are required. The program is 45 credit hours in length. The MBA with an Executive concentration is a full-time, fixed-track, 17-month program designed for full-time working professionals and mid-upper level executives with at least five years work experience. Classes are offered one day a week during the Fall and Spring semesters on alternating Thursday evenings and Saturdays and in two domestic and one international residency weeks. The program is 41 credit hours in length. The International MBA is a fixed-track, two-year program designed for the full-time student interested in international business. Internship and study-abroad components are emphasized in the program. The Master of Science with a major in Business Administration has concentrations in Finance; Management Information Systems; Real Estate; and Hospitality and Resort Management. This MS degree offers students distinct specialization in their chosen concentration area. The Master of Science in Accounting provides students wishing to specialize in accounting the opportunity to concentrate in one of three areas: general accounting, accounting systems, and taxation. The Master of Arts in Economics provides advanced training in economics for students who are interested in continuing their graduate education with the PhD in Economics or who are interested in a career as an economic analyst in the private sector or in government organizations. I. MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION An MBA is designed for those students who are interested in managerial careers -- for those with leadership aspirations and abilities. Specific program objectives include: acquisition of managerial-level knowledge of and skills in economics, financial reporting and analysis, operations, strategic use of science and technology, and creating customer and societal value in the global arena; acquisition of managerial-level knowledge of and skills in creativity and innovation, leadership and team-building, ethics and law; acquisition of managerial-level knowledge of and appreciation for the global implications of all business decision-making. A. Program Admission Applicants to all MBA programs must have: An undergraduate degree from an accredited college or institution. A Graduate School application for admission and the appropriate fee. An official transcript from each college or university attended. Applicants must present an acceptable score on a recent (five years or less) Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) or the Graduate Record Examination (GRE). Official GRE or GMAT scores are required for admission. Admission is competitive based on standardized test scores, cumulative grade point averages, (etc.). A current resume A personal statement of interest Response to the required essay questions (available at ) Two letters of recommendation A separate application and additional information materials must be submitted for admission to the Executive concentration ( ) , the International MBA ( ), or the CD-MBA concentration ( . Business experience requirements include one year work experience for the MBA and at least five years professional or managerial experience for the Executive concentration. Arrangements for taking the GMAT can be made by using . Arrangements for taking the GRE can made by writing to the Educational Testing Service, P.O. Box 6000, Princeton, New Jersey 08541-6000, by calling 1-866-473-4373, or by using . Registration packets for the GRE may be obtained from the Testing Center on campus in John W. Brister (JWB) Hall room 112. Applicants with at least five years of managerial experience may choose to submit a portfolio of professional accomplishments in lieu of a GMAT or GRE score. An admissions committee will review each applicant's portfolio of professional accomplishments to decide if a GMAT/GRE waiver is warranted. If an applicant's portfolio is not adequate to warrant a GMAT/GRE waiver, that applicant will be asked to submit a GMAT or GRE score, as per standard admission procedure. Applicants who request a GMAT/GRE waiver must submit their portfolios to the department academic advisor. Qualified applicants may enter the MBA or the MBA with Law concentration in either the Fall or Spring semesters, while admission to the International MBA, the MBA with Executive concentration, and the CD-MBA is for Fall only. MBA Preparatory Knowledge Students entering the MBA programs are expected to be fluent in the language of business; students are expected to have a working understanding of key concepts in economics, finance, and accounting. In addition, students are expected to have a working proficiency in statistics. If students have deficiencies in the basic concepts and skills of business, they may be counseled (by the MBA Program Director and/or the MBA program staff) to take preparatory courses and/or secure self-paced review materials. There are no prerequisite courses to the MBA programs. B. MBA Program Requirements Each candidate for an MBA degree must complete a minimum of 33 semester hours of course work that include 30 hours of Core Knowledge and Skills. Students who desire a concentration are required to take an additional 15 hours of coursework beyond the 30 hour Core as per the specifications of each concentration. Students who do not desire an MBA concentration are required to take a 3 hour elective (approved by the MBA Program Director) beyond the 30 hour Core. Core Knowledge and Skills: MIS 7650 Information Systems in the Global Enterprise (3 hours) FIR 7155 Global Financial Management (3 hours) ACCT 7080 Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers (3 hours) ECON 7100 Economics for the Global Executive (3 hours) MKTG 7555 Creativity and Innovation (2 hours) MGMT 7135 Leadership and Team-building (2 hours) ACCT 7050 Law, Ethics and Corporate Governance (2 hours) SCMS 7313 Global Operations Management (3 hours) SCMS 7110 Quantitative Tools for Managers (3 hours) MKTG 7140 Global Strategic Marketing (3 hours) MGMT 7160 Global Strategic Management (3 hours) Business Administration (No Concentration) Additional course requirements include one elective course in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. Approval of elective courses must be obtained from the Director of MBA Programs. Executive MBA Concentration: Program Requirements The MBA with Executive Concentration is a 41 credit-hour program that can be completed in 17 months. All students generally progress together through the program with some flexibility built in to allow specialization based on the background and needs of executive cohorts. Courses are offered in a variety of formats, including in-class sessions, technology-enhanced instruction, hybrid format, weekend classes, intensive domestic residencies, innovation projects and an international study residency. Learning materials and content are specially designed for corporate executives in all formats. Classes meet on weekends during the Fall and Spring semesters. The international business residency will generally be in the summer after the first Spring semester of the program. The Executive MBA curriculum is as follows: Core Knowledge and Skills (30 hours) MIS 7650 Information Systems in the Global Enterprise (3 hours) FIR 7155 Global Financial Management (3 hours) ACCT 7080 Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers (3 hours) ECON 7100 Economics for the Global Executive (3 hours) MKTG 7555 Creativity and Innovation (2 hours) MGMT 7135 Leadership and Team-building (2 hours) ACCT 7050 Law, Ethics and Corporate Governance (2 hours) SCMS 7313 Global Operations Management (3 hours) SCMS 7110 Quantitative Tools for Managers (3 hours) MKTG 7140 Global Strategic Marketing (3 hours) MGMT 7160 Global Strategic Management (3 hours) Executive Concentration Courses (11 hours) BA 7950 Practicum in International Business (3 hours) MGMT 7421 Self Leadership for Executives (2 hours) MGMT 7250 Strategic Human Capital Management (2 hours) FIR 7160 Executive Financial Management (2 hours) BA 7717 Special Topics in Business Administration (2 hours) The program website provides additional information regarding course schedule, etc. Biomedical Management CD-MBA/Professional MBA Concentration: Program Requirements The Biomedical Management MBA concentration consists of 45 credit-hours. Classes are offered during the day and the evening. A 3-credit-hour internship with a sponsoring company may be required. The Biomedical Management MBA curriculum is as follows: Core Knowledge and Skills (30 hours) MIS 7650 Information Systems in the Global Enterprise (3 hours) FIR 7155 Global Financial Management (3 hours) ACCT 7080 Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers (3 hours) ECON 7100 Economics for the Global Executive (3 hours) MKTG 7555 Creativity and Innovation (2 hours) MGMT 7135 Leadership and Team-building (2 hours) ACCT 7050 Law, Ethics and Corporate Governance (2 hours) SCMS 7313 Global Operations Management (3 hours) SCMS 7110 Quantitative Tools for Managers (3 hours) MKTG 7140 Global Strategic Marketing (3 hours) MGMT 7160 Global Strategic Management (3 hours) Biomedical Management Concentration Courses (12 hours) ECON 7715 Global Healthcare Economics MKTG 7520 Medical Device New Product Development SCMS 7315 Design and Mgmt. of Supply Chains in the Biomedical Industry HADM 7718 Medical Technology Purchasing and Sales Specific courses may change periodically as market needs, technology, and applied business knowledge changes. Company Internship or elective (3 hours) Services Marketing CD-MBA/Professional MBA Concentration: Program Requirements The Services Marketing MBA concentration consists of 45 credit hours. Classes are offered during the day and evening. A three-credit-hour internship with a sponsoring company may be required. The Services Marketing curriculum is as follows: Core Knowledge and Skills (30 hours) MIS 7650 Information Systems in the Global Enterprise (3 hours) FIR 7155 Global Financial Management (3 hours) ACCT 7080 Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers (3 hours) ECON 7100 Economics for the Global Executive (3 hours) MKTG 7555 Creativity and Innovation (2 hours) MGMT 7135 Leadership and Team-building (2 hours) ACCT 7050 Law, Ethics and Corporate Governance (2 hours) SCMS 7313 Global Operations Management (3 hours) SCMS 7110 Quantitative Tools for Managers (3 hours) MKTG 7140 Global Strategic Marketing (3 hours) MGMT 7160 Global Strategic Management (3 hours) Services Marketing Concentration Courses (12 hours) MKTG 7540 Applied Consumer Behavior MKTG 7542 Retail Marketing Strategy MKTG 7544 Integrated Marketing Communications and Branding MKTG 7546 Marketing in a Digital Age Specific courses may change periodically as market needs, technology, and applied business knowledge changes. Company Internship or Elective (3 hours) Entrepreneurship CD-MBA/Professional MBA Concentration: Program Requirements The Entrepreneurship concentration consists of 45 credit hours. Classes are offered during the day and evening. A three-credit-hour directed study in developing a business plan for a new venture is required. The Entrepreneurship curriculum is as follows: Core Knowledge and Skills (30 hours) MIS 7650 Information Systems in the Global Enterprise (3 hours) FIR 7155 Global Financial Management (3 hours) ACCT 7080 Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers (3 hours) ECON 7100 Economics for the Global Executive (3 hours) MKTG 7555 Creativity and Innovation (2 hours) MGMT 7135 Leadership and Team-building (2 hours) ACCT 7050 Law, Ethics and Corporate Governance (2 hours) SCMS 7313 Global Operations Management (3 hours) SCMS 7110 Quantitative Tools for Managers (3 hours) MKTG 7140 Global Strategic Marketing (3 hours) MGMT 7160 Global Strategic Management (3 hours) Entrepreneurship Concentration Courses (12 hours) MGMT 7270 Venturing, Building, and Sustaining a Successful Enterprise FIR 7648 Evaluating and Financing New Projects ACCT 7412 Legal and Accounting Aspects of Entrepreneurship MGMT 7910 Problems in Management Specific courses may change periodically as market needs, technology, and applied business knowledge changes. Elective (3 hours) Professional MBA Concentration: Program Requirements The MBA with a Professional concentration is a flexible format 45-credit-hour program. Classes are offered during the day and evening. The concentration courses consist of 15 credit-hours chosen with the approval of the MBA Program Director and faculty advisors. The concentration courses are carefully selected to provide students with maximum professional impact. The Professional MBA concentration curriculum is as follows: Core Knowledge and Skills (30 hours) MIS 7650 Information Systems in the Global Enterprise (3 hours) FIR 7155 Global Financial Management (3 hours) ACCT 7080 Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers (3 hours) ECON 7100 Economics for the Global Executive (3 hours) MKTG 7555 Creativity and Innovation (2 hours) MGMT 7135 Leadership and Team-building (2 hours) ACCT 7050 Law, Ethics and Corporate Governance (2 hours) SCMS 7313 Global Operations Management (3 hours) SCMS 7110 Quantitative Tools for Managers (3 hours) MKTG 7140 Global Strategic Marketing (3 hours) MGMT 7160 Global Strategic Management (3 hours) Professional Concentration Courses (15 hours) Elective courses taken upon advice of the program director and faculty advisors. MBA with Concentration in Law (MBA/JD) Core Knowledge and Skills courses are identical to the MBA program. Electives for this concentration are offered through the Cecil B. Humphreys School of Law and must be approved by the Director of MBA Programs in the Fogelman College. For JD/MBA students, the director of the MBA program will have the discretion to approve course substitutions of up to 9 credits from the following list of courses offered by the law school: Administrative Law (311) Antitrust (318) Arbitration/Labor (315) Banking Law (385) Bankruptcy Reorganization Seminar (442) Business Organizations II (319) Commercial Paper (323) Corporate Finance (384) Debtor-Creditor Relations (327) Employment &amp; Labor Law Seminar (443) Environmental Law (328) Environmental Law Seminar (438) Comparative Law Seminar (441) Immigration Law (337) Labor Law (343) Land Use Planning (344) Non-Profit Organizations (370) Problems in Bankruptcy (354) Partnership Tax (352) Realty Transactions (358) Sales (359) Securities Regulations (361) Unfair Trade Practices (366) International Finance (338) International law (340) Transnational Legal Problems (365) To facilitate customization, students are encouraged to consult with the director of the MBA program to add to this list in order to complement their desired course plan. II. INTERNATIONAL MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION The International MBA is designed to assist students in meeting their goal of acquiring knowledge of international business, even if they do not have a traditional business background or a second language. The International MBA is open to graduates of business, foreign language, or liberal arts programs. It is a full-time, lock-step program (including one summer), with a minimum of 51 credit hours of required coursework. Coursework for the International MBA degree includes 30 hours of business core coursework, identical to the other MBA programs in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics. The IMBA includes an additional 21 credit hours, 15-18 of which are devoted to an international experience (study abroad and internship abroad). Students secure an appropriate internship (with some assistance from the IMBA program, but ultimate responsibility for obtaining the internship lies with the student), which must be approved by the IMBA program before academic credit may be awarded. Program objectives are: (1) An understanding of the general context of business in society including: ethical and global issues; influence of the political, legal, social, and technological environment; the impact of demographic diversity on organizations; and knowledge of the essential foundations of the functional areas of business. (2) Acquisition of a professional-level knowledge of: financial reporting and analysis; managing organizations; strategic use of science and technology; and creating value in the global arena. (3) Competence in business communication in a foreign language (except in the World Regions Track). (4) Building knowledge and skill in the operation of one or more international businesses. (5) Ability to compete effectively for jobs in the profit and not-for-profit sector. A. Program Admission: Applicants must have: An undergraduate degree from an accredited college or university. A Graduate School application for admission and have paid the appropriate fee. An official transcript from each college or university attended with course by course credential evaluations (from a credential evaluation organization that is a member of the NACES) for degrees earned from accredited foreign educational institutions. Satisfactory performance on undergraduate course work and a recent (5 years or less) GMAT or GRE examination score. Acceptable TOEFL score for international applicants. All applicants to the International MBA program must also submit a current resume, personal statement, three letters of recommendation, and an IMBA Applicant Profile form. Students must also pay the $500 seat fee (which is subsequently applied to their first annual program fee). Qualified applicants enter the program during the Fall Semester only. The program website is . memphis.edu/internationalmba . B. Program Requirements: Language and Culture Options The International MBA Program offers three (3) Business Track options. Students must choose from one of the following: Regional Business Track: for U.S. students with three years (six semesters) of foreign language proficiency. Students in this track will concentrate on the business practices, culture and language of the students’ preferred region of the world. World Region Business Track: for U.S. students who wish to specialize in the practice of business in geographical regions where English is the accepted business language. U.S. Business Track: for international students who have English as their second language. This track provides in-depth exposure to U.S. business practices and culture. Coursework Core Knowledge and Skills (30 hours) MIS 7650 Information Systems in the Global Enterprise (3 hours) FIR 7155 Global Financial Management (3 hours) ACCT 7080 Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers (3 hours) ECON 7100 Economics for the Global Executive (3 hours) MKTG 7555 Creativity and Innovation (2 hours) MGMT 7135 Leadership and Team-building (2 hours) ACCT 7050 Law, Ethics and Corporate Governance (2 hours) SCMS 7313 Global Operations Management (3 hours) SCMS 7110 Quantitative Tools for Managers (3 hours) MKTG 7140 Global Strategic Marketing (3 hours) MGMT 7160 Global Strategic Management (3 hours) International MBA Program Requirements (18 hours) BA 7902--Workshop in Business (2 hours) BA 7950--Practicum in International Business (internship) (3-6 hours) BA 7920--Contextual Environment for International Business (12 hours) Study Abroad coursework at an approved partner institution (U.S. Business Track students complete elective coursework at the University of Memphis according to an approved plan, depending on each student's background and interests.) BA 7910--Problems in International Business (1-3 hours) Business Language (differs by track) (3 hours) World Business and U.S. Business Tracks Business elective (3 hours) Country Tracks (students choose one) LALI 7780--Individual Studies in Business Language (3 hours over two courses) Minimum hours required for graduation--51 hours Study Abroad Academic Requirements and Fees Grades for classes undertaken during a study abroad experience at one of the University of Memphis' partner institutions overseas will be transferred back to the University of Memphis and are subject to the university's policy on graduate transfer credit. Credit toward a degree does not transfer automatically; however, the program is designed for students who study abroad so every reasonable effort is made to transfer credit from partner institutions. Grades earned at another institution will not be computed in the university cumulative grade point average, nor will they be accepted for transfer, unless they are "B" (3.0) or better. No credit will be transferred unless it meets with the approval of the International MBA advisor or program graduate coordinator. Transferred courses from overseas partner institutions will appear on student transcripts as BA 7920 with a "Satisfactory" (S) grade. Students will need to obtain an evaluation of their overseas transcript by a professional credential evaluation firm (for a list of such firms, please visit ). The evaluation firm must receive the transcript directly from the overseas university and submit a course by course evaluation directly to the IMBA Program advisor. Evaluations or transcripts issued to the student cannot be used in the transfer credit process. Fees charged to the student for such services vary by evaluating agency and is the responsibility of the student. International MBA students are required to pay any fees required by the University of Memphis International Programs Office related to study abroad. Students are also responsible for round-trip airfare, passport fees, books, medical insurance, and any other expenses related to studying and interning abroad. IMBA Graduate Assistantships Graduate assistantships are available to students enrolled in the International MBA program. Graduate assistantships are competitive and are awarded only to highly qualified applicants. Graduate assistantships require students to supply 10-20 hours of service to the University of Memphis per week. Graduate assistants who work at least 10 hours per week are classified as in-state students for fee-paying purposes for the term of their appointment, only. In-state graduate assistants working at least 10 hours per week receive a waiver of ONE HALF of tuition and fees during the academic year. Graduate assistants who work 20 hours per week receive full waiver of tuition and fees during the academic year. (Tuition and fee benefits do not apply to study abroad or the summer semester.) University supported graduate assistants are expected to carry a 9-credit-hour load each semester of the academic year. Graduate assistants must maintain a 3.0 GPA to retain their assistantships. III. MASTER OF SCIENCE Program objectives are: (1) an understanding of the general context of business in society and a foundation knowledge of the essential business functions; (2) acquisition of an advanced level of knowledge of a specialized business discipline; (3) ability to make significant professional contributions within a functional area of business; and (4) ability to compete effectively for professional positions in the private or public sectors. A. Program Admission Applicants to all MS programs in the Fogelman College must have the following: An undergraduate degree from an accredited college or institution; Application for admission and appropriate fee; Official transcript from each college or university attended; Satisfactory performance on undergraduate coursework and a satisfactory score on the Graduate Management Admissions test or the Graduate Record Examination GRE; International applicants must submit an acceptable TOEFL score. Qualified candidates may enter these programs at the beginning of any semester. The Graduate Non-Degree classification allows individuals who have not yet decided to pursue a graduate degree or who have professional development needs to enroll in MS courses (a maximum of 9 credit hours). To remain enrolled as a Graduate Non-Degree student, individuals must maintain a minimum GPA of 3.0. Students should note that the 9-hour maximum is more stringent than the University Graduate School policy. MS in Accounting Prerequisite courses and program requirements for this degree are described in the School of Accountancy section of this bulletin. MS in Business Administration Prerequisites for the Master of Science in Business Administration differ by concentration area. Description of these prerequisites is listed in the departmental description for each concentration. All Master of Science in Business Administration students must complete the following two core courses: MIS 7650 - Information in the Global Enterprise - 3 hours FIR 7155 - Global Financial Management - 3 hours Total core: 6 hours The remaining hours beyond the MSBA core are taken in the concentration area as specified in the appropriate departmental listing in this bulletin. Students in this program should consult the departmental master’s advisor for details concerning the concentration. IV. MASTER OF ARTS IN ECONOMICS The Department of Economics offers a graduate program leading to the Master of Arts degree. For program admissions, prerequisites, and degree requirements see the departmental listing in this section. PhD IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION The mission of the PhD program in Business Administration is to prepare students primarily for academic careers in research-oriented institutions of higher education and secondarily for research careers in organizations. Program objectives are: (1) an acquisition of an advanced level of knowledge in one or more functional areas of business or in applied economics and an expert level of knowledge in one or more subfields of a business function or economics; (2) ability to conduct significant, independent research that extends the knowledge base in a business function or economics; (3) capacity to teach effectively within the business or economics discipline; (4) capacity to communicate advanced-level knowledge to others in the academic and professional community; and (5) ability to compete effectively for faculty positions in respected colleges and universities or other high-level professional positions. Students with master’s or professional degrees in business administration, public administration, economics, law, engineering, mathematics, computer science, psychology, sociology, and the physical sciences will find this background provides important preparation for entering the PhD program. The University has the academic resources to provide the doctoral applicant with a balanced education that provides both the qualitative and quantitative skills required of the modern business education professional. The PhD student at the Fogelman College must select a concentration from one of six departments: accounting, economics, finance, management, management information systems, and marketing. Visit this website for more information: . A. Program Admission and Prerequisites Individuals meeting the general requirements for admission to the Graduate School for doctoral-level programs shall be eligible to apply for admission to the PhD in Business Administration program. Applicants must indicate their area of concentration when filing their initial application. Admission to the PhD program may be granted to qualifying applicants who show high promise of success in doctoral business study. The principal criterion for admission is evidence of superior achievement in prior academic work, coupled with outstanding promise for future contributions as a business scholar. The concentration department and the Associate Dean of Academic Programs will review and evaluate each applicant. Some concentrations may not admit students to the doctoral program every year. Interested applicants should contact the departmental PhD coordinators before applying to the program. Criteria used for admission consideration is competitive based on the applicant's: Academic record . Applicant's grade point average should be 3.2 or higher on a 4.0 basis. Testing. Applicants must present an acceptable score on a recent (five years or less) Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) or the Graduate Record Examination (GRE). Recommendations. Three letters of recommendation are required from former professors, colleagues, and/or business executives. Personal Statement and Resume. Applicants must submit a written statement of career plans and objectives no more than two-pages in length, and a current resume of academic and professional experiences. Mathematics. Applicants must submit a transcript indicating the successful completion of a course in calculus. Interview. Applicants may appear before the departmental admission committee for a personal interview. Prerequisites in the functional areas of business are determined by the department. A typical applicant has completed a master's degree in business, economics, or other relevant discipline. Following admission, a student will be assigned to a department program committee composed of faculty members from the student’s department of concentration. The program committee is responsible for planning and approving the program requirements, and for guiding and monitoring the progress of the student through the program. B. Program Requirements A minimum of 72 hours beyond the bachelor's degree is required. A minimum of 39 hours of the curriculum below must be completed at the University of Memphis after admission to the program. Most concentrations require more than 39 hours. Residency: Students enrolled in the doctoral program must also meet the university residency requirements as defined in the Minimum Degree Requirements section of this catalog. C. Course Requirements Research Core (at least 12 semester hours): Includes courses designed to develop and improve research skills. Students may be required to acquire competence using research tools and techniques beyond and above what is required with the research core. Courses in the Research Core must be approved by the student’s departmental PhD coordinator. Concentration (at least 30 semester hours): A minimum of 12 hours of 7/8000 level courses is required in the student's chosen concentration. Possible concentrations are Accountancy, Economics, Finance, Management, Management Information Systems, or Marketing. Additional supporting coursework may be selected from these concentrations or from approved areas outside the college. Courses graded an S or U may not be used to satisfy the minimum hours required for Research Core or Concentration. Dissertation (18 semester hours): Major research of an original and creative nature is required and must meet the requirements of the Graduate School. The dissertation is the research capstone of the PhD program and must be a significant contribution to the study of Business Administration. The student will register for dissertation credit hours every semester after passing the comprehensive examinations. Students planning to graduate in the summer must be registered for dissertation credit. The student must show satisfactory progress over a 2-year period of time. Unsatisfactory progress towards dissertation completion will be grounds for dismissal from the program. After the dissertation committee approves the dissertation proposal, the candidate will be given a final oral examination primarily dealing with the dissertation. The dissertation committee will conduct this examination and all members must be present at the examination. If the student’s performance on this examination is satisfactory as judged by the committee, all requirements for the degree will be complete. In the Fogelman College, no credit earned more than 10 years prior to the student’s date of completion of the doctoral degree will be applied toward satisfying requirements of the doctoral degree. Students should note that the 10-year time limit is more stringent than the University Graduate School policy. NOTE: Students should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. D. Comprehensive Examinations Each student will have comprehensive examinations in the concentration. Comprehensive examinations in the concentration should be taken as soon as all of the course work required for the PhD degree has been successfully completed. Exceptions can be made at the discretion of the Associate Dean for Academic Programs. After satisfactorily completing the written comprehensive examinations, each student must pass an oral examination integrating all work. The student's program committee will organize and administer the oral examination. Some concentrations require qualifying examinations covering specific courses or content, typically given after the first or second year of coursework, which must be successfully completed prior to sitting for the comprehensive exam. Passing of the qualifying exam can allow students in the Economics concentration to apply some course work towards the MA degree before continuing with the doctoral degree requirements. Failure to pass the qualifying exam after two attempts will result in termination from the program. EXPENSES Credit Hour Surcharge A surcharge of $30 per credit hour for graduate students has been approved by the Tennessee Board of Regents. The purpose of the surcharge on these business courses is to facilitate the continuous improvement of the college and compliance with the standards of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business International (AACSB International). Financial Assistance A number of doctoral and master's graduate assistantships are available to full-time students. Doctoral assistantships may be available to those students with strong GMAT or GRE scores. Graduate assistants provide part-time assistance to the concentration in teaching and/or research. Current compensation for doctoral students can range from $9,000 to $15,000 per academic year, for master's students a minimum of $6,000 per academic year, in addition to a full tuition waiver. The Fogelman College also has a limited number of doctoral fellowships available. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .