#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/students/morton.php
Morgan Morton Study Abroad Fund - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News Students Students Future Students Current Students Complete Professional Program Undergraduate Student Services Office FCBE Academic Integrity FCBE Standards for Academic Integrity The Fogelman Student Code of Professionalism Netiquette Guide for Online Courses Understanding Plagiarism FCBE Internships FCBE Scholarships Student Organizations Home FCBE Students Morgan Morton Study Abroad Fund Morgan Morton Study Abroad Fund Morgan Morton, a Fogelman College alumnus and supporter established the Morgan Morton Study Abroad Fund . This fund is designed to stimulate international and domestic travel for undergraduate, masters and Ph.D. business students. Priority is given for international travel and to undergraduate students in their final year of study. The travel fund is intended to enhance students' learning about businesses (both for-profit and not-for-profit) and to further their professional development. The University of Memphis Morgan Morton Study Abroad Fund A selection committee appointed by the Dean's office selects the applicants based on merit, and also determines the amount of monetary support the student receives. The estimated amount of support per student is typically between $500 and $1500. However, this amount may change based upon the demand for funding, and generally, higher amounts will be awarded for international travel. Students who are selected to receive travel funds will be required to submit a written report or make a presentation detailing the learning experiences of the trip upon return. Students may travel individually or as a group, but must be in good academic standing with the University. The purpose of individual travel may include attending conferences, travelling for internships or studying abroad. Group travel, for example, may include travelling for case competitions. University faculty and staff may be eligible to use this fund, but only if a chaperone is deemed necessary for student learning. To apply for the Morgan Morton Travel Enrichment Fund, please complete the following application . In addition to the application, please include A one-page description of the trip including a list of the courses you'll be taking, expected learning outcomes, how this trip will make you more knowledgeable in global business and how you plan to use the knowledge and skills gained abroad to enhance your personal and professional goals, etc. Your current resume A letter of recommendation from a faculty or staff member at the FCBE. Please submit all four (4) documents to Stephanie Stringer for review. Please drop off applications addressed to Stephanie Stringer at the reception desk of the Undergraduate Student Services Office in the Fogelman College Admin Building, during normal business hours (8:00 a.m. – 4:30 p.m., Monday – Friday). Application Deadlines If you are planning to study abroad during Winter Break or the Spring Semester, applications must be submitted by October 15 . If you are planning to study abroad during the Fall Semester, Summer Semester or Academic Year, applications must be submitted by March 15 . To find out more information or if you have questions, please contact Felicia Roddy-Jackson Email - Phone: 901.678.2859 Office: Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics, FAB 114 Students Students Future Students Current Students Complete Professional Program Undergraduate Student Services Office FCBE Academic Integrity FCBE Standards for Academic Integrity The Fogelman Student Code of Professionalism Netiquette Guide for Online Courses Understanding Plagiarism FCBE Internships FCBE Scholarships Student Organizations Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .