#http://www.memphis.edu/benefits/info/aflac.php
AFLAC - University Benefits Administration - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Benefits Administration Staff Directory Benefits Information Related Resources &amp; Links Human Resources Benefits Information Prospective Employees New Faculty New Staff Current Employees Departing Employees Retiring Employees Home University Benefits Administration Benefits Information AFLAC AFLAC Effective January 1, 2012 the Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) offers five voluntary supplemental insurance plans: Group Hospital Indemnity Group Accident Insurance Group Critical Illness Personal Sickness Indemnity Cancer Indemnity Information about each of the plans and their associated premiums are listed below. You may also visit the AFLAC web site designed specially for our employees here . Our local AFLAC agent is Debra Booker, she may be reached by phone at 901/230-6439 or by email at debra_booker@us.aflac.com . Group Hospital Indemnity Benefit Monthly Premium*: Ages 18-64: $16.89 The Supplemental Hospital Indemnity plan provides benefits for inpatient as a result of covered accidents and sickness. Please refer to the Group Supplemental Hospital Indemnity Brochure for specific benefits, definitions, and exclusions. Customer Service: 1.800.433.3036 Group Accident Insurance Benefit Monthly Premium*: Ages 18-69: $17.09 Group Accident insurance pays a benefit for the treatment of injuries suffered as the result of a covered accident. Benefits are paid regardless of any other health insurance benefits the insured may receive. Please refer to the Group Accident Brochure for specific benefits, definitions, and exclusions. Customer Service: 1.800.433.3036 Group Critical Illness Benefit Monthly Premium*: Non-tobacco premiums for first $5,000 of coverage Ages 18-29: $5.07 Ages 30-39: $6.71 Ages 40-49: $10.47 Ages 50-59: $16.46 Ages 60-69: $24.68 Tobacco premiums for first $5,000 of coverage Ages 18-29: $6.39 Ages 30-39: $9.31 Ages 40-49: $18.53 Ages 50-59: $29.76 Ages 60-69: $45.88 Group Critical Illness provides a lump-sum benefit upon the diagnosis of not only one covered illness, but for each covered illness. Please refer to the Group Critical Illness Brochure for specific benefits, definitions, and exclusions. Customer Service: 1.800.433.3036 Personal Sickness Indemnity Plan (Level 1) Benefit Monthly Premium*: Ages 18-39: $21.41 Ages 40-49: $23.96 Ages 50-59: $29.79 Ages 60-64: $41.45 Individual Hospital Confinement Sickness Indemnity provides cash benefits directly, which can be used for treatment costs or everyday bills. Please refer to the Individual Hospital Confinement Sickness Indemnity Brochure for specific benefits, definitions, and exclusions. Customer Service: 1.800.992.3522 Cancer Indemnity Insurance Benefit Monthly Premium*: Ages 18-35: $11.99 Ages 36-45: $14.74 Ages 46-55: $19.43 Ages 56-70: $24.94 Individual Maximum Difference Essentials provides cash benefits directly, which can be used for treatment costs or everyday bills. Please refer to the Individual Maximum Difference Essentials Brochure for specific benefits, definitions, and exclusions. Customer Service: 1.800.992.3522 *Monthly premiums include a 6% administrative fee. Benefits Information Prospective Employees New Faculty New Staff Current Employees Departing Employees Retiring Employees Tiger Perks Exclusive discounts offered to UofM employees Affordable Care Act Important information related to the Affordable Care Act Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .