#http://www.memphis.edu/internships/studentguide/greeninternship.php
Green Internship - Internships - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Internships Student Employer Faculty Internship Guidelines Events Contact Us Student Guide Campus Resources Internship Opportunities University Internship Programs Home Internships Student Guide Green Internship Green Internships As you may know, each semester part of your tuition and fees supports the Green Campus Initiative. The University of Memphis Sustainable Campus (Green) Fee Committee provides funding for approved proposals to make the University of Memphis campus more sustainable, address environmental challenges, become a leader in sustainable technologies/practices, and act as a model for the community. The Green Fee Committee has received a proposal for funding for undergraduate green internships. Based on funding received, selected students will be provided the opportunity to work with a campus or community partner to enhance the student’s understanding of sustainability and to assist in the organization’s efforts to promote sustainability. The Green Internship occurs during the Fall and Spring semesters. If you are interested in applying for the Green Internship, please review the information below. What is a green internship? A green internship is an educational/work experience sponsored by an organization that promotes sustainability in areas such as: Energy efficiency Utility conservation Environmental protection Recycling Who is eligible to apply for a green internship? Undergraduate students who have: first-generation or low-income or students with a disability minimum sophomore standing at time of application minimum 2.50 grade point average minimum of one or more regular semesters (fall/spring) remaining before graduation. Undergraduate students who have active status in the Student Success Programs (SSP) will be given first consideration after meeting these requirements. What are the green internship requirements? Students selected for a Green Internship are required to: satisfactorily complete an approved learning contract Internship Course in Academic Major or UNIV 4000 - Community Internship earn 3 semester hours of academic credit work 150 clock hours during the semester present internship experience at Green Internships Recognition Event What do selected green interns earn? Interns earn a stipend of $10 per hour (or $1500 for the semester) plus $200 to assist with tuition costs for an academic internship for a total of $1700. University stipends will be distributed bi-monthly. The following community and campus partners have hosted interns during the past semesters: Community Sites Campus Sites BRIDGES CBRE Memphis C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa City of Memphis, Division of Parks &amp; Recreation Elegant Farmer First Tee Girls, Inc. Grow Memphis Highland Area Renewal Corporation International Paper Jabber Blabber Earth Friendly Family Publication Keep Tennessee Beautiful Memphis Bioworks Foundation Memphis Botanic Garden Memphis Zoological Society Memphis and Shelby County Office of Sustainability Salvation Army Shelby Farms Service Master Shelby County Department of Health, Air Quality Improvement Branch YMCA Walker – University District Business Alliance Barbara K. Lipman School College of Education, Health and Human Sciences City and Regional Planning Ecological Research Center Editor, Communications and Marketing Ground Water Institute Herff College of Engineering Student Health Services Office of Academic Internships Office of Sustainability What types of activities do green interns perform? Advertising Advocacy Education Fundraising Marketing Project Management Public Relations Research Social Media Special Events How to apply for the Spring 2016 Green Internship? To apply for the program, complete and electronically submit the following to greeninternships@memphis.edu by Friday, October 2 (priority deadline) or Friday, October 16 (regular deadline). A one page resume A letter of recommendation The following application To watch a video of one of our successful internship experiences, Click here . Also, see a video of the Spring 2015 Green Internship experience. Green Internship program at the University of Memphis - YouTube The Green Internship program at the University of Memphis is an educational/work experience in sustainable fields. In addition, Green Interns get paid through... Watch now... For additional information contact Tola Jenkins at greeninternships@memphis.edu / 901.678.3260 Student Guide Campus Resources Internship Opportunities University Internship Programs Veteran Reconnect Internship Program Learn more about the Veteran Reconnect Internship Program The Washington Center Internship Program Learn more about TWC Green Internship Program Tiger Blue Goes Green Search for Internships Browse Current Internship Opportunities Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .