#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/econ/2015FECON2010004.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus E CON - 2010 - Sectio - 004 Principles of Macroeconomics Fall 2015 3 Credit Hours Instructor: D r. Rejeana M. Gvillo E - mail: R gvillo@memphis.edu Classroom: Fogelman Classroom Building 125 , MW 5:30 - 6:55 Website: - management website, ecourseware, to stay in contact with you and to report your grades. The syllabus can also be found at this website. Office Hours: Mondays and Wednesdays, immediately after class Course Overview Economics 2010 analyzes the overall performance of economic systems including output and employment levels, inflation, economic growth, international finance, and the effects of monetary and fiscal policies. The goal of Economics 2010 is to develop a frame work that the student can use to analyze the overall behavior of a modern mixed - capitalist economy and its international interactions. This framework introduces the student to the economic way of thinking about the macro - level forces at work in society tha t shape economic performance and guide economic policy. Performance and policy then feedback and influence the business and social environment. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no prerequisite courses per se. However, we will be using basic tools of graphs and a very little bit of algebra. To make sure you are comfortable with them I will be giving an extra credit homework assignment based on the Appendix to Chapter 1 of the text. Required Texts (and Related M aterials ) : Course Objectives : 1. The student should be able to define scarcity, opportunity costs, demonstrate how they affect economic decisions, and identify those costs in a given e conomic decision. 2. The student should be able to understand and describe the concepts and measurement of gross domestic product, unemployment, and inflation, and how these variables correspond to the business cycle. 3. The student should be able to und erstand and describe the difference between short - run business cycles and long - run economic growth and the factors that contribute to each. 4. The student should be able to understand and describe how Aggregate Demand and Aggregate Supply determine macroe conomic equilibrium price and output in the short run and the long run. 5. The student should be able to understand and describe the following for both fiscal policy and monetary policy: concepts, tools, implementation, limitations, relative advantages a nd disadvantages, and how each affects aggregate economic activity. 6. The student should be able to understand and describe the arguments pro and con for a policy of laissez - faire versus government activism in the management of macroeconomic policies. 7 . The student should be able to understand and describe the concepts of comparative advantage, the balance of payments and its components, and the determinants of exchange rates. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree These are the AACSB learning outcomes for the BBA: Course Methodology The cour se will be taught on - site Grading and Evaluation Criteria In - Class Quizzes: There will be in - class quizzes. The quiz in which your score is the lowest will be dropped. There will be NO makeup opportunities for any of the quizzes. In case you miss more than one quiz with a University approved excuse, you will receive your averag e quiz score for the missed quizzes. This is dependent upon your showing me a University approved excuse at the next class period. Exams: Two midterm exams and one final comprehensive exam will be given during the semester. If you miss any exam, you m makeup exams will be given unless you have missed an exam for University - approved reasons such as an emergency visit to a doctor, a University - sponsored trip, athletic events or conferences. You must provide the supporting documents before rescheduling the exam. Grade Weights Midterms (2) 50% (25% each) Final (Comprehensive) 25% Quizzes 25% Final Course Grades 95 100 A+ 73 75 C+ 90 94 A 70 72 C 85 89 A - 67 69 C - 82 84 B+ 64 66 D+ 79 81 B 60 63 D 76 78 B - < 60 F Course Topics See S chedule of Activi ti es Schedule of Activities Week Date Topics Chapters Quiz/Exam 1 Au g. 24, 26 Intro , Trade Offs 1 , 2 2 Aug. 31, Sept 2 Prices, Efficiency 3, 4 3 Sept. 7, 9 Labor Day , Firms 6 4 Sept. 14,16 Comparative Advantage 7 5 Sept. 21, 23 Exam I Week (Review, Exam) Exam I 6 Sept. 28, 30 GDP, Unemployment 8, 9 7 Oct. 5, 7 Economic Growth 10 8 Oct. 12 14 Break, LR Economic Growth 11 9 Oct. 19, 21 Aggregates 12, 13 10 Oct. 26, 28 Exam II Week (Review, Exam) Exam II 11 Nov. 2, 4 Money, Monetary Policy 14, 15 12 Nov. 9, 11 Fiscal Policy, Inflation 16, 17 13 Nov. 16, 18 Inflation Continued 17 14 Nov. 23, 25 Catch - up, Thanksgiving 15 Nov. 30, Dec. 2 Review 16 Dec. 9 Final Final Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . It is scheduled for December 9, from 5:30 7: 30. Course Policies E - MAIL: Please email me at my Memphis.edu email via your Memphis.edu email . Communicating through eCourseware is not recommended. Attendance : Attendance will be taken periodically but will not directly factor into your grade. Regularly attending class is important and will u ltimately affect your final grade. If you miss a class, you are responsible for the material you have missed. Adding/Dropping : The drop date for the fall semester is October 16. Academic Integrity: Expectations for academic integrity and st udent conduct are described in detail on the website of the Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Affairs ( u/studentconduct/ ) . Please take a look, in Disruptive B these guidelines and to conduct themselves accordingly. Any incidents of academic for the course. Participation: S tudents are encouraged to participate in classroom activities. Classroom or Online Behavior: [Y our expectations relating to Classroom Behavior .] Late Assignments: There will be no make - up exams or quizzes without a University approved excused absence. Please contact me prior to the absence, during, or upon your first day r eturn to schedule the make - up. Inclement Weather: In the event of a University closure or an unplanned absence, you should check your University student email account for instructions from me. If a class is cancelled for any reas on, the material or exams that would have been covered or given will be covered or given on the day we resume class. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance