#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbescholarships/
FCBE Scholarships - FCBE Scholarships - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Scholarships Welcome Undergraduate Graduate External Apply UofM Scholarships FCBE Home FCBE Scholarships Welcome The Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics offers over 75 different private scholarships to declared business majors totaling over $300,000. These scholarships are available to incoming freshmen, transfer, continuing, graduate, and doctoral students each year. All FCBE scholarships are awarded for the academic year (fall and spring semesters only). Students are able to apply for two different types of scholarships, general business scholarships and departmental scholarships. We encourage students to apply for both types of scholarships as many high ability students are awarded scholarships from both categories. Please note that all scholarships within the Fogelman College of Business and Economics can be awarded in addition to any scholarship you may receive from the University. How To Apply | UofM Scholarship Website Current students are encouraged to apply for private and departmental scholarships through the Tiger Scholarship Manager. Tiger Scholarship Manager provides a centralized, searchable database of all scholarship opportunities. This technology improves the process of matching students to the financial resources they need to make their educational dreams a reality. Log into your myMemphis portal to apply. General Business Scholarships General business scholarships are available for all declared business majors, regardless of academic major concentration. The awards amounts for these scholarships often vary from year to year and include both one time awards and four year awards. General business scholarships can be both merit based and/or need based. Departmental Scholarships Departmental scholarships are available for students with a declared major in that particular department. All students must have officially declared their business major by the scholarship deadline of a future date to be determined. Departmental scholarships are awarded based on the criteria set forth by the scholarship donor and the department’s scholarship committee. Like general business scholarships, departmental scholarships awards amounts often vary from year to year and include both one time awards and four year awards. Departmental scholarships can be both merit based and/or need based. The University of Memphis Financial Aid Office also provides centralized and convenient access to a full range of financial aid services. For more information about financial aid services, visit the UofM Financial Aid web site. For more information regarding Fogelman College Scholarships, contact us . FCBE Undergraduate Scholarships Are you looking for an undergraduate scholarship? FCBE can help! FCBE Graduate Scholarships Are you looking for a graduate scholarship? FCBE can help! Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Twitter Facebook Event Calendar Support the FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .