#http://www.memphis.edu/biology/people/faculty/amy-abell.php
Amy N. Abell, Ph.D. - Biological Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Biological Sciences Undergraduate Graduate Centers People Research Events Scholarships Home Biological Sciences People Amy N. Abell, Ph.D. Amy N. Abell, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Phone (901) 678-1307 Email anabell@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-4457 Office 305 Life Sciences, Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours By Appointment About Dr. Abell Dr. Abell joined the Department in 2013. She teaches BIOL4094 Biology of Stem Cells and BIOL7730/8730 Stem Cells: Culture/Appl. She began her research career as graduate student studying the structure and function of G protein coupled receptors that are essential for reproduction. During her post-doctoral training, she created a mouse model with neural tube, skeletal and implantation defects. These defects are all related to perturbations in epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), a biological process controlling the conversion of stationary epithelial stem cells to motile mesenchymal cells. Importantly, EMT is essential for normal development, but it is reactivated in several pathologies including organ fibrosis and cancer metastasis. Dr. Abell's lab uses stem cells that she has isolated from mice with EMT related defects to define the signaling/gene expression networks regulating EMT. One goal of her research is to identify novel master regulators of EMT and the reverse process MET. This information will be used in designing new strategies for regenerative medicine and the treatment of EMT related pathologies. Projects in the lab use molecular, cellular and embryological tools to identify regulators of EMT. Research Interests Epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), a biological program that is critical during development and is reactivated during organ fibrosis and cancer metastasis. Epithelial stem cells and their transition to mesenchymal cells through EMT EMT in breast cancer metastasis EMT during placentation and embryonic development Epigenetic mechanisms that regulate gene expression important for EMT in stem cells and in cancer. Education B.S. Physiology, University of California at Davis; Ph.D. Physiology and Biophysics, University of Iowa at Iowa City; Post-Doctoral Fellow Pharmacology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center. Recent Publications Abell, A.N. and Johnson G.L., (2014). Implications of mesenchymal cells in cancer stem cell populations: relevance to EMT. Current Pathobiology Reports 2, 21-26. PMCID: PMC4266994. Jordan, N.V., Prat, A., Abell, A.N., Sciaky, N., Karginova, O.A., Zhou, B., Golitz, B.T., Perou, C.M., and Johnson, G.L., (2013). SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling factor Smarcd3/Baf60c controls EMT by inducing non-canonical Wnt5a signaling. Mol Cell Biol. 33, 3011-3025. PMCID: PMC3719671. Duncan, J.S., Whittle, M.C., Nakamura, K., Abell, A.N., Midland, A.A., Zawistowski, J.S., Johnson, N.L., Granger, D.A., Jordan, N.V., Darr, D.B., Usary, J., Kuan, P.F., Smalley, D.M., Major, B., He, X., Hoadley, K.A., Zhou, B., Sharpless, N.E., Perou, C.M., Kim, W.Y., Gomez, S.M., Chen, X., Jin, J., Frye, S.V., Earp, H.S., Graves, L.M., and Johnson, G.L., (2012). Dynamic reprogramming of the kinome in response to targeted MEK inhibition in triple negative breast cancer. Cell 149, 307-321. PMCID: PMC3328787. Midland, A.A., Whittle, M.C., Duncan, J.S., Abell, A.N., Nakamura, K., Zawistowski, J.S., Carey, L.A., Earp, H.S., Graves, L.M., Gomez, S.M., and Johnson, G.L., (2012). Defining the expressed breast cancer kinome. Cell Research 22, 620-623. PMCID: PMC3317564. Jordan, N.V., Johnson, G.L., and Abell, A.N., (2011). Tracking the intermediate stages of epithelial-mesenchymal transition in epithelial stem cells and cancer. Cell Cycle 10:17, 2865-2873. PMCID: PMC3218599. Huang, W., Umbach, D.M., Jordan, N.V., Abell, A.N., Johnson, G.L., and Li., L., (2011). Efficiently identifying genome-wide changes with next-generation sequencing data. Nucleic Acids Research 39, e130. PMCID: PMC3201882. Abell, A.N*., Jordan, N.V.*, Huang, W., Prat, A., Midland, A.A., Johnson, N.L., Granger, D.A., Mieczkowski, P.A. Perou C.M., Gomez, S.H., Li, L., and Johnson, G.L., (2011). MAP3K4/CBP regulated H2B acetylation controls epithelial-mesenchymal transition in trophoblast stem cells. Cell Stem Cell 8, 525-537. PMCID: PMC3091002. (Previewed by Heredia, F. and Nieto, A.M., (2011). An epigenetic mark that protects the epithelial phenotype in health and disease. Cell Stem Cell 8, 462-463. PMID: 21549319.) Borikova, A.L.*, Dibble, C.F.*, Sciaky, N, Welch, C.M., Abell, A.N., Bencharit, S., and Johnson, G.L., (2010). Rho kinase inhibition rescues the endothelial cell cerebral cavernous malformation phenotype. J Biol Chem 285, 11760-11764. PMCID: PMC2852911. Machacek, M., Hodgson, L., Welch, C., Elliot, H., Pertz, O., Nalbant, P., Shen, F., Abell, A., Johnson, G., Hahn, K.M., and Danuser, D., (2009). Coordination of rho GTPase activities during cell protrusion. Nature 461, 99-103. PMCID: PMC2885353. Abell, A.N., Granger, D.A., Johnson, N.L., Vincent-Jordan, N., Dibble, C.F., and Johnson, G.L., (2009). Trophoblast stem cell maintenance by fibroblast growth factor 4 requires MEKK4 activation of jun N-terminal kinase. Mol Cell Biol. 29, 2748-2761. PMCID: PMC2682043. Biology@Memphis Newsletter Read about graduate and undergraduate student news; awards, grants and scholarships; publications, and more... Administration Budgets, accounting, facilities management, committees, meetings, and group email accounts Facilities Not your ordinary classrooms... Contact Us Main office contacts, faculty and staff administration Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/20/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .