#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/news/archive_flash/2015sept/
September 2015 Issue - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Home FCBE News Cook Trust enables Fogelman College to sponsor the 2015 Oxford Analytica Global Horizons Conference in Oxford, England Last week, representatives from the Fogelman College of Business and Economics (FCBE) travelled to Oxford, England for Oxford Analytica's 2015 Global Horizons Conference. This incredible opportunity was enabled by Michael Cook, chairman &amp; CEO of SouthernSun Asset Management and founder of the Cook Trust. Furthermore, the Cook Trust generously funded Fogelman College's participation and sponsorship of the international event. Among the FCBE group to attend the conference was Dr. Rajiv Grover, dean, Dr. Balaji Krishnan, professor and director of MBA Programs, Rebecca Koch, International MBA student, and Anna Michael, marketing manager. Read more Dr. Jamin Speer to be Published in Journal of Human Resources and the Journal of Labor Economics Dr. Jamin D. Speer, assistant professor of economics at the Fogelman College, recently had a paper accepted to be published in the Journal of Human Resources. The paper is entitled "Pre-Market Skills, Occupational Choice, and Career Progression." The paper used a combination of data sources to study the effects of workers' pre-market skills in various fields on their initial occupation choices and career progression patterns, with a particular focus on understanding gender gaps in occupation. The paper showed that pre-market skills, as measured by test scores and personality traits, accounted for a significant portion of occupational gender gaps, including 71 percent of the gender gap in science and engineering occupations. It also found that career trajectories were remarkably similar across workers, meaning that initial differences in occupation persist over time and that pre-market skills have long-lasting impacts on careers. Read more Former FCBE Ph.D. Student Awarded Prize for Research on REIT Volatility and Liquidity Former Fogelman College Ph.D. student, Dr. Pawan Jain, was recently awarded the 2015 NAREIT/AREUEA Real Estate Research Conference Distinguished Research Prize by NAREIT and the American Real Estate and Urban Economics Association (AREUEA). Dr. Jain's paper, "J-REIT Market Quality: Impact of High Frequency Trading and the Financial Crisis", used data from the Japanese REIT market. However, his findings have "clear implications for other REIT markets, including in the U.S.," according to Brad Case, NAREIT's senior vice president for research and industry information. Read more Former FCBE Student Honored with Medal of Inspiration Award Abdullahi Abdullahi, former FCBE accounting student, was recently awarded Beta Alpha Psi's Medal of Inspiration Award. The Medal of Inspiration Award is sponsored by the American Institute of CPAs and is granted to students who have experienced extreme hardships in his or her life and who has demonstrated an unusually high level of success despite the adversities. The award included a $5,000 cash stipend. Abdullahi's family sought refuge in Kenya in the midst of the Somali Civil War and settled in the United Nations' refugee camp, Dadaab. He remained there until he was granted the opportunity to relocate to the United States and begin college at the University of Memphis. Despite coming from the largest refugee settlement in the world at the time, Abdullahi has always remained optimistic that he would reach his goal of receiving an education. Read more Two FCBE Students Honored with the Carson Circle Award Mary Garcia and Johnathan Moffett, both department of Economics majors, were recently honored with the Carson Circle Award. The Carson Circle Award recognizes seniors who have demonstrated a commitment to placing service above self, treated others with dignity and respect, established relationships with people different from themselves, had a well-rounded collegiate experience, and contributed positively to the quality of life at the University. Read more News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .