#http://www.memphis.edu/erc/urban-ecology/
Urban Ecology Initiative - ERC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Ecological Research Center About Facilities People Research Teaching Services Home ERC Urban Ecology Program in Urban Ecology Vision To develop a world class program in Urban Ecology — a new frontier in science that focuses on the dynamic interactions among humans and the sustainability of ecological systems and natural resources. Approach To provide an academic unit within the University that would foster (through research and education) the institution's goal of discovery and dissemination of critical knowledge for sustainable urban ecology to the metropolitan community of Memphis, the people of Tennessee, the nation, and the international community. To prepare diverse graduate student populations for successful careers in ecology and related fields and, in so doing, contribute to the global need for a workforce qualified to address the world's growing demand for ecological information. To organize unique partnerships within the community and employ the highest levels of technology to foster an unrivaled program in urban ecological research for meeting the current and future needs in conservation and management of natural resources in the metropolitan community of Memphis and around the world. Training Development of an interdisciplinary graduate program focused on ecology and management of natural resources (e.g., wildlife, fisheries, forestry, conservation, and other) with a focus on urban and suburban communities. The program would epitomize the highest realization of graduate-level education aimed at resolving and preventing ecological and social problems of the 21st century. Students would uphold traditional backgrounds in ecology but cross traditional boundaries resulting in a multidisciplinary focus that would combine ecological studies with such fields as public policy, economics, political science, sociology, communications, geography, and technology... Emphasis would be placed on technology and the use of technology to enhance research, teaching, and service as it applies to natural resources. Students graduating from the program would have technological skills that would equip them for conducting research at the highest level. Because of the complexity of the issues and situations associated with urban ecology, there is a strong need for bright, energetic, and imaginative students who feel they can make a difference in our struggle for a sustainable high quality of life on earth. The field of Urban Ecology is still developing and needs many bright minds to determine its future directions. This situation offers students many new and exciting opportunities related to careers in this new frontier of the 21st century. Research A new research approach toward understanding the complex interactions among humans and their environment is needed. While many natural habitats continue to decrease in extent, urban habitat continues to increase at a rapid pace. Paralleling the growth in urban habitat is an increase in extinction rates of plants and animals and a global loss of biodiversity (the entire array of earth's biological variety, contained in genes, populations, communities, and ecosystems). This situation has been described as a crisis state. Managers of natural resources, with environmental economists, must offer a careful and well-designed integration of conservation and management plans to transform ecological knowledge into public policy if extinction rates are to be lowered and biodiversity preserved. The challenge is to simultaneously serve the needs of humans and, yet, preserve nature. New practices, policies, and bright minds are needed to meet this challenge. The research goal is to investigate, synthesize results, and recommend policy changes that will be instrumental in restoring and maintaining the natural processes that create and protect a healthy, unfragmented landscape to support a diverse, flourishing community of human, plant, and animal life. Because of the multiple interests associated with natural resources in urban locations, a strong and growing need exists for understanding ecological systems in these areas and providing information that can be used in decision-making. Conservation of natural ecosystems and preservation of biological processes is of paramount interest. This goal is best achieved through proactive research rather than reactive activities. Humans are and will continue to be a part of natural and degraded ecological systems, and, therefore, their presence must be considered in ecologically sustainable management of natural resources. Scientific information strong on policy-relevant questions and a work force of researchers trained with a robust cross-disciplinary approach critical to success in urban environments will result from such focused research. Institutionalizing Ecological Literacy is critical to our future. Environments are both urban and rural. Students and researchers should be knowledgeable of the ever-widening ecosystem concerns, beginning in neighborhoods and expanding the globe. The proposed Urban Ecology Initiative promises to foster this aim. Program in Urban Ecology Learn more about the new frontier in science that focuses on the dynamic interactions among humans and the sustainability of ecological systems and natural resources. Links of Interest Resources related to ecological issues Contact the ERC Administrative offices contact information. Department of Biological Sciences The ERC is a part of the Department of Biological Sciences Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/24/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .