#http://bf.memphis.edu/bfguide/10350.htm
BF10350 - Specialized Purchasing Guidelines - The University of Memphis The University of Memphis Specialized Purchasing Guidelines BFGuide Issued: Dec-13-2005 Revised: Oct-01-2013 Responsible Official: Assistant Vice President, Business Services Responsible Office: Procurement and Contract Services Purpose To provide users with information related to specialized purchasing guidelines. Contents Definitions Bid Bond Emergency Purchase Life-Cycle Costs Non-Competitive Negotiation Performance Bond Proprietary Purchases Punch-Out Catalogs Request for Proposal (RFP) or Proposal Request for Quotation (RFQ) or Bid Small, Minority, Disabled Veteran and Woman-Owned Business Sole Source Purchases Banner Finance System Tigerbuy System Procedures Acquisition of Computer Systems Bid and Performance Bonds Coordination of Purchasing Functions Among TBR and UT Institutions Emergency Purchases Making Purchases from Small, Minority, Disabled Veteran and Woman-Owned Businesses Purchases for Library, Excluding Materials and Supplies Identified for Consumption by the Library Purchases for Resale in Auxiliary Enterprises Purchase of Hazardous Materials Purchase of Utility Contracts Purchases Utilizing Federal Guidelines Using Non-Competitive Negotiation for Sole Source Procurement Utilizing Competitive Negotiation Life-Cycle Costs Energy Efficiency Standards Limitation of Liability-Materials, Supplies, Equipment, and Services TBR Council of Buyers Reports Exceptions Links BFGuide - Competitive Bidding BFGuide - Contracts and Agreements BFGuide - Using the Tigerbuy System to Create Requisitions BFGuide - Sole Source or Proprietary Purchases University Purchasing Policy UM1507 University's Small and Minority Business Program University Policy 1:2D:03:11, Purchase of Library Materials TBR Minimum General Bid Conditions (Attachment A) TBR Code of Ethics in Procurement & Contracting (Attachment B) List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs Premier Dell.com Tennessee Code Annotated (TCA) Contacts Procurement and Contract Services Staff Office of Environmental Health &amp; Safety Definitions Bid Bond An insurance agreement, accompanied by a monetary commitment, by which a third party (the surety) accepts liability and guarantees that the bidder will not withdraw the bid, the bidder will furnish bonds as required, and if the contract is awarded to the bonded (insured) bidder, the bidder will accept the contract as bid, or else the surety will pay a specific amount Emergency Purchase A purchase made to alleviate a situation in which there is an immediate threat to health, welfare, or safety under certain conditions defined as an emergency by the jurisdiction, that does not allow time for normal, competitive purchasing procedures. Life-Cycle Costs A procurement technique, which considers operating, maintenance, acquisition price, and other costs of ownership in the award of contracts to ensure that the item acquired will result in the lowest total ownership cost during the time the item's function is required Non-Competitive Negotiation The negotiation of the terms of a contract with only one provider (sole source) Performance Bond A contractor's bond, guaranteeing that the contractor will perform the contract and providing that, in the event of a default, the surety (a third party) may complete the contract or pay damages up to the bond limit Proprietary Purchases A proprietary product is one that is manufactured and marketed by a person or persons having the exclusive right to manufacture and sell the product. Marketing is generally controlled by franchises that may include competitive sales at wholesale or retail levels. When it is found that bids may be obtained from different franchises, request for bids must be issued unless the estimated purchase is less than $10,000. Punch-Out Catalogs Integrated external links to a supplier's web-based catalog. The user is connected electronically to the selected punch-out catalog to search and select products from a supplier's web catalog, the items are returned to the Tigerbuy shopping cart. The selected items are then submitted through the standard requisition/order process. Request for Proposal (RFP) or Proposal A competitive process in which proposals are solicited from possible suppliers, with a source or sources of supply established for a specified period of time at agreed upon unit pricing for goods and/or services Request for Quotation (RFQ) or Bid A competitive process soliciting bids from possible suppliers for a one-time procurement of product(s) and/or services Small, Minority, Disabled Veteran and Woman-Owned Business Small business &ndash; A business which is independently owned and operated, in accordance with the provisions of T.C.A &sect; 12-3-802, and is not dominant in its field of operation. Minority-owned business &ndash; A continuing, independent, for profit business which performs a commercially useful function and is at least 51% owned and controlled by one or more minority individuals who are impeded from normal entry into the economic mainstream because of past practices of discrimination based on race or ethnic background in accordance with the provisions of T.C.A &sect; 12-3-802. Woman-owned business &ndash; A women owned business that is a continuing, independent, for profit business which performs a commercially useful function, and is at least 51% owned and controlled by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51% of the stock of which is owned and controlled by one or more women and whose management and daily business operations are under the control of one or more women in accordance with the provisions of T.C.A &sect; 12-3-802. Service-Disabled veteran business &ndash; Tennessee service-disabled veteran means any person who served honorably on active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States with at least a twenty percent (20%) disability that is service-connected meaning that such disability was incurred or aggravated in the line of duty in the active military, naval or air service. &ldquo;Tennessee service disabled veteran owned business&rdquo; means a service-disabled veteran owned business that is a continuing, independent, for profit business located in the state of Tennessee that performs a commercially useful function, and is at least 51% owned and controlled by one (1) or more service-disabled owned veterans in accordance with the provisions of T.C.A. &sect; 12-3-802. Sole Source Purchases Purchases are made only when items are unique and possess specific characteristics that can be filled by only one source. The vendor must furnish a letter indicating that it is the sole source and the letter must be signed by an authorized company representative. Banner Finance System A computerized on-line system used to produce and maintain the University's financial records for the Tigerbuy system. The Banner Finance system is the official system of record for all procurement transactions created in Tigerbuy. Tigerbuy System A computerized eProcurement system used to manage the University's procurement process online. The Tigerbuy application includes modules that address each step in the procurement process: sourcing/negotiated contracts, shop and compare, create requisition, requisition approval process, create and distribute purchase order, and receive and settle. Procedures Acquisition of Computer Systems Procedures for Ordering Dell Computers : Currently, the University has a contract with Dell Marketing LP for computer systems and peripherals. The Dell contract is effective April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2016. To place an order and utilize the University&rsquo;s negotiated pricing, users must log on the Tigerbuy eProcurement System. From the &ldquo;Product Search&rdquo; tab, users can enter Dell&rsquo;s website by selecting the Dell punch-out catalog icon. Users can browse and select items within the site, &ldquo;Add them to a Cart&rdquo;, save as an &ldquo;E-quote&rdquo; and then select &ldquo;Create Order Requisition.&rdquo; Users will be directed to a &ldquo;Shipping&rdquo; page, in which a series of questions are required to be answered. Upon completion, select &ldquo;Submit Order Requisition&rdquo; and the requisition will be imported to the Tigerbuy eProcurement System. Users have the ability to review the draft requisition and then select &ldquo;Place Order.&rdquo; See Using the Tigerbuy System to Create Requisitions section of this guide for procedures on utilizing the Tigerbuy System. If specific computer configurations are unavailable within the Dell punch-out catalog, contact the Dell sales representative, Tim Burleson at 901-409-2165 or by email at tim_burleson@dell.com for assistance. Bid and Performance Bonds All bond requirements shall be identified in the RFQ or RFP. The right is reserved to require the successful bidder to furnish security, free of any expense to the University, to guarantee faithful performance of the contract. When bonds are required, the following paragraph shall be added to the RFQ or RFP: "All bidders are required to include the cost of a performance bond in the amount of $______ to guarantee faithful performance of the contract. The cost of the bond shall be separately identified in the bid. The University reserves the right to waive the bond requirement and delete the cost of the bond from the successful bid." Coordination of Purchasing Functions Among TBR and UT Institutions In all contracts and other bid processes wording should be included that would allow TBR member institutions and UT institutions to purchase under the terms and conditions of the University's bids unless to do so would not be potentially helpful to other institutions or unless to do so is not in the best interests of the University. The University shall also be permitted to purchase under the terms and conditions of a contract or bids of the TBR and UT institutions if the bid authorizes the University to do so. That is to say that TBR institutions and UT institutions may purchase under the bid of any other institution in either system if language in the bid documents specifies that the other institutions may do so. Sometimes an exception applies, and procurement is made without a bid process; in such situations, TBR and UT institutions may purchase off the contract resulting from the procurement process as long as the contract specifies that they may do so. Emergency Purchases Purchases of specific materials, supplies, equipment or services may be made in the open market for immediate delivery only to meet bona fide emergencies arising from any unforeseen cause. All bona fide emergency purchases must be approved by the President or Director of Procurement and Contract Services or designee, and a written report on the circumstances of any such emergency justifying the purchase shall be prepared and maintained by the University. All emergency purchases shall, if practicable, be made on the basis of competitive bids. To initiate an emergency requisition, the authorized person must submit an approved requisition to Procurement and Contract Services stating on the requisition, "Emergency Request," along with a written report justifying the emergency. To assist in expediting the order, include the vendor's phone number and fax number. PROPER PLANNING WILL ELIMINATE MOST EMERGENCY TRANSACTIONS. Making Purchases from Small, Minority, Disabled Veteran and Woman-Owned Businesses The University's Diversity Business Program is designed to actively solicit bids from small and minority-owned businesses in order to obtain a fair proportion of goods and services from such businesses, whenever possible. Procurement and Contract Services maintains a list of small, minority-owned and women-owned businesses that can provide goods and services for University departments. A report of transactions with small, minority, and woman-owned businesses required by T.C.A. &sect; 12-3-808 is prepared by Procurement and Contract Services and transmitted to the Vice Chancellor for Business and Finance on a quarterly basis. Purchases for Library, Excluding Materials and Supplies Identified for Consumption by the Library Purchases of materials for additions to a library collection include cost of books, catalogs, periodicals, binding, audiovisual media and other general publications. These items are capital expenditures and shall be made in accordance with University Policy UM1635, Acquisition of and Accounting for Library Materials. These purchases may be made without formal bids or quotations, and appropriate documentation shall be maintained on these purchases to support sole source procurement. Purchases of electronic journals, subscriptions, and databases for libraries shall be procured through the University's Procurement and Contract Services Department in instances when a competitive process can be used. In addition, any required electronic or written agreements to license journals, subscriptions, or databases shall be routed through the University's Procurement and Contract Services Department for review and approval prior to use. Appropriate documentation must be maintained for purchases to support sole source procurement. Additionally, these items may require the approval of the Fiscal Review Committee if the purchase exceeds the Fiscal Review Committee threshold. Purchases for Resale in Auxiliary Enterprises Textbooks and other course related materials may be purchased without adherence to Minimum Notice and Number of Bids (See Competitive Bidding section of this BFGuide). All textbook ordering lists and authorization forms must be maintained for audit purposes. Certain items for resale for which customers have expressed a preference, and/or promotional items procured under accepted retail merchandising practices, may be purchased without adherence to Minimum Notice and Number of Bids (See Competitive Bidding section of this BFGuide). Appropriate documentation shall be maintained which supports the action taken. Purchase of Hazardous Materials University personnel purchasing hazardous chemicals, biological agents, and items emitting ionizing radiation are reminded of the following requirements: Chemicals purchased outside TigerBuy and classified by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as &ldquo;Chemicals of Interest&rdquo; must be reported to the Environmental Health and Safety Office (EH&amp;S) at the time of purchase, regardless of quantity purchased. A list of these chemicals is available at . All planned purchases of Chemicals of Interest in excess of the DHS threshold limits, whether handled through TigerBuy or not, should be discussed with EH&amp;S prior to ordering. Chemical purchasers must also ensure that all Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs) for hazardous chemicals are sent to the Environmental Health and Safety Office, 216 Browning Hall. When received in EH&amp;S, the MSDSs are scanned and made available via the secure web site at (precede your username with uom\ when logging into the system). Prior to purchasing biological agents and toxins contained in the federal list of &ldquo;Select Agents,&rdquo; University personnel should discuss plans for such purchases with EH&amp;S. The list of Select Agents is available at . Purchases of radioisotopes and ionizing radiation producing devices (e.g., x-ray machines) must be approved by EH&amp;S prior to making such purchases. Radioisotope purchases should not be made through TigerBuy unless pre-approved by EH&amp;S. Purchase of Utility Contracts The University shall purchase or contract for all telephone, telegraph, electric, light, gas, power, postal and other services for which a rate for the use thereof has been established by a public authority in such manner as the University deems to be in the best interest of the State of Tennessee. Each such purchase or contract shall be made on a competitive basis, whenever possible, in accordance with University Purchasing Policy UM1507 , unless it has been determined that such purchase is single source. If such purchase has been determined to be single source, the purchase shall then be made pursuant to Non-Competitive Negotiation , of this BFGuide. Purchases Utilizing Federal Guidelines Purchases utilizing federal funding are to follow federal guidelines regarding such purchases. Purchases for goods or services shall not be made from vendors on the List of Parties Excluded From Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement . Using Non-Competitive Negotiation for Sole Source Procurement Personal, professional and consultant service contracts may be obtained by non-competitive negotiation when the contractor is a state agency, a political subdivision of the State, and any other public entity in Tennessee, or an entity of the federal government. Reference F&amp;A Rule 0620-3-3-03. Factors to be considered in sole source and proprietary purchases may be found in the Sole Source and Proprietary Purchase section of this BFGuide. Only authorized sole source may be procured utilizing non&#8209;competitive negotiation. Utilizing Competitive Negotiation A contract may be entered into by competitive negotiation only in cases when the University is unable to obtain needed goods and/or services by the competitive bid process. In addition, competitive negotiation may be appropriate for personal, professional and consultant service contracts when one of the following is true: Public need will not permit the delay incident to the RFP process; No acceptable proposals have been received after the RFP process; Rates payable for the services are regulated by law; or As provided in the Minimum Bid Notice &amp; Number of Bids, item 2 of the Competitive Bidding section of this BFGuide (F&amp;A Rule 0620-3-3-03). The President shall prescribe the procedures under which negotiation is to be conducted. These procedures shall provide for the safeguarding of the information and provide fairness to the vendors in the negotiation process; procedures shall mandate communication of the requirements of the University, clarify best interests of the University, and solicit bids from at least three (3) potential providers (including small, minority, and woman-owned business providers as otherwise required by University Purchasing Policy), and require documentation of the solicitation process. In the event it appears the competitive negotiation process is to be implemented, such an action must be approved by the President. Once the negotiations have been concluded, a recommendation shall be made by the negotiating team to the President to approve the results prior to entering into a contract. Life-Cycle Costs It is the policy of the University to use the life cycle costs of commodities as developed and disseminated by the federal government when feasible (T.C.A. &sect;12-3-602). In determining life cycle costs, the acquisition cost of the product, the energy consumption and the projected energy cost of energy over the useful life of the product and the anticipated resale or salvage value of the product may be considered in the evaluation (T.C.A. &sect;12-3-606). Energy Efficiency Standards Energy Star is a joint program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy that has established energy efficiency standards that are used by the Federal government in its contracting for major energy-consuming products, as well as energy efficient best practices. The University shall use energy efficiency standards prescribed by Energy Star for the purchase of energy-consuming products. The Energy Star website ( ) provides a qualified list of products and commodities meeting Energy Star&rsquo;s minimal energy specifications, life cycle costing calculations, life cycle cost formula information and qualified products that meet Energy Star&rsquo;s rating for using less energy and helping to protect the environment. (T.C.A. &sect;&sect;12-3-604 &amp; 12-3-605). Products and commodities listed on the Energy Star website&rsquo;s list of qualified products and commodities will be used as &ldquo;acceptable brands and models&rdquo; on bid documents. The minimal energy specifications for products and commodities listed on the Energy Star Qualified Products list (see link above) must be included in the line item specifications on all bid documents for the purchase of major energy-consuming products. Limitation of Liability-Materials, Supplies, Equipment, and Services The provisions of this Section are not required to be followed for contracts of adhesion; for such contracts, the provisions of TBR Guideline G-030 Section 11 subsection Contract of Adhesion may be applied. The President or designee or the Chancellor or designee, as appropriate may approve contracts for the purchase of materials, supplies, equipment and services when such contracts contain limitations of the liability of contractors for damage claims. Not Authorized. The approving authority is not authorized to approve limitations of contractor liability for intentional torts, criminal acts, or fraudulent conduct; nor is the approving authority authorized to accept limitation of liability for an amount less than two times the value of the contract. Further, this section does not authorize TBR or the University to indemnify contractors for the acts or negligence of the contractors or third parties. Approval Timeliness. Any request to the approving authority under this section must be made at an appropriate time in the procurement process to ensure that no such decision shall detrimentally impact the fairness of the procurement or the interests of the state in competitive procurements. In a form RFQ or RFP, the University may determine to request the approving authority&rsquo;s approval under this section after receiving written comments from potential proposers. If the approving authority approves such request, an amendment to the RFQ or RFP may be made. The University may request, and the approving authority may approve, initiation of a new procurement process, including a contractor's limitation of liability, at any stage of the procurement process and may authorize negotiation of a limitation on a contractor's liability in circumstances in which the applicable procurement process has failed to provide a qualified proposer or a responsive bid. Approval Process. The request under this section must be submitted in writing to the approving authority and must be signed by the Director of Procurement and Contract Services. The request must contain justification that addresses the following: the text of the limitation of liability sought to be used; the risks of liability to the state created by the information technology services and/or products to be purchased under the contract, and the impact on the state of allowing the limitation; the conditions of the market which justify a limitation of liability; the anticipated impact on the state's procurement if limitation of liability is not approved; and the identification of one or more persons at the University familiar with the information set forth in the request. The approving authority may deny or approve the request or may authorize limitation of liability under other language than that proposed in the request. Notwithstanding the above, the approving authority may authorize, with respect to contracts for telecommunications and information technology goods and services, a limitation of liability of not less than two (2) times the value of the contract provided that the limitation of liability permitted under this paragraph shall not apply to intentional torts, criminal acts, fraudulent conduct or acts or omissions that result in personal injuries or death. Any limitation beyond that permitted in this paragraph must be approved by the Chancellor. TCA 12-3-315 and General Services Rule 0690-3-2 See Contracts and Agreements section of this BFGuide for Limitation of Liability of Personal, Professional and Consultant Service Contracts. TBR Council of Buyers The TBR Council of Buyers, established by the Chancellor, is comprised of at least one (1) procurement representative from each institution and representatives from the TBR Central Office appointed by the Chancellor. The Council should meet quarterly, or at a minimum semi-annually, or upon request of the Chancellor or designee, and shall have the responsibilities, including but not limited to, the following: Development of uniform procedures, forms and general conditions governing procurement which may be feasible and practicable for use by all TBR institutions, including affirmative action and equal opportunity provisions, for review and approval by the Chancellor. Uniform procedures, forms and general conditions governing procurement developed by the Council of Buyers shall be posted at the TBR web site . (See TBR Minimum General Bid Conditions - Attachment A ). Formulation of standard specifications for purchase of specific materials, supplies, and equipment, which may be feasible and practicable for use by the TBR institutions for review and approval by the Chancellor or designee. Standard specifications for purchase of specific materials, supplies, equipment, and/or services developed by the Council of Buyers shall be posted at the TBR web site. Consideration of the feasibility and advantages of possible term contracts for the TBR system, of designation of certain institutions as responsible procurement agents for specific materials, supplies or equipment for the TBR system, and of the possibility of coordinating procurement functions among TBR institutions within geographic areas, with recommendations to be submitted to the Chancellor. Formulation of a uniform code of ethics for governing the professional conduct of employees responsible for procurement. (See TBR Code of Ethics in Procurement and Contracting - Attachment B ). Any other matters referred to the Council by the Chancellor or designee. Reports The University's Procurement and Contract Services Department shall submit to the TBR Central Office the following reports: Small, Minority, and Woman-Owned Business Report. This report consists of transactions with minority-owned, women-owned and small businesses required by TCA 12-3-808 shall be reported to the TBR Director of Purchasing and Contracts on a quarterly basis (January-March, April-June, July-September, and October-December). Group Purchasing Report. This report consists of transactions procured with comparison pricing from group purchasing organizations required by TCA 49-7-124 and shall be reported to the TBR Director of Purchasing and Contracts on an annual basis. RFP Diversity Report. This report consists of contracts issued from RFPs for goods and/or services pursuant to TCA 12-3-807(b) and shall be reported to the TBR Director of Purchasing and Contracts. Exceptions Any exceptions to the policies and procedures established in the BFGuide or University Purchasing Policy UM1507 shall be subject to the approval of the Chancellor or designee. The University's Procurement and Contract Services Department may devise and document procedures for an Alternate Competitive Procurement Method and use the methodology in a specific contractor selection process, provided that prior, written approval of the Chancellor or designee is obtained for the proposed method to be used in the specified instance. Links BFGuide - Competitive Bidding BFGuide - Contracts and Agreements BFGuide - Using the Tigerbuy System to Create Requisitions BFGuide - Sole Source or Proprietary Purchases Energy Star Web site University Purchasing Policy UM1507 University's Diversity Business Program University Policy UM1635, Acquisition of and Accounting for Library Materials TBR Minimum General Bid Conditions (Attachment A) TBR Code of Ethics in Procurement & Contracting (Attachment B) List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs Tennessee Code Annotated (TCA) Contacts Procurement and Contract Services Staff Office of Environmental Health &amp; Safety Revision Dates Oct-01-2013 Oct-23-2009 Jul-01-2009 Dec-13-2005 (Working Guideline Number: 10350)