#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/engr/mech.php
MECH Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning MECH Courses MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (MECH) NOTE: Students taking Engineering courses will be charged an additional $25 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: MECH 6990-6998. Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. MECH 7901-7909–8901-8909. Special Topics in Mechanical Engineering. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. MECH 6305 - Fluid Mechanics II (3) Continuation of MECH 3331. Introduction to various topics in advanced fluid mechanics, including flow over immersed bodies; compressible fluid flow; turbomachinery; measurements in fluid mechanics; and inviscid flow. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3331. MECH 6309 - Gas Dynamics (3) Concepts in compressible flow, including topics such as isentropic flow, varying area flow, normal and oblique shockwaves, Fanno flow,and Rayleigh flow. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3312, 3331. MECH 6313 - Heat Transfer II (3) Principles of boiling, condensation, and radiation heat transfer; fundamentals of heat exchanger design. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3351. MECH 6315 - Principles of HVAC Systems (3) Psychometric analysis, heating and cooling loads of buildings and analysis of air conditioning systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3351. MECH 6320 - Mechanics of Materials II (3) Stress-strain analyses of thin-walled cylinders and spheres, springs, laterally loaded struts, struts with initial curvature, rotating disks and cylinders; plastic yielding of beams and shafts; introduction to energy methods. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 6324 - Computer Meth/Design (3) Application of computer-aided analysis software to the design of mechanical components and systems; introduction to fundamental concepts and principles of finite element methods; design problems and project assignments using finite element analysis package. MECH 6325 - Adv Mech Materials (3) Biaxial stresses, torsion, unsymmetrical bending of beams, shear centers, contact stresses, failure theory, and other selected topics. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3322. MECH 6326 - Biomedical Sy Anly-Mech (3) Introduction to concepts used in analyzing living systems; simulation of body functions with mechanical and computer models; familiarization with the design of mechanical bioengineering devices such as heart valves, heart-lung machines, renal analysis machines. PREREQUISITES: MECH 2332, 3322. MECH 6330 - Intro To Composite Mat (3) Introduction to fiber reinforced composite materials; mechanical behavior, strength, design methodology, and implementation of computer aided design. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 6331 - Turbomachinery (3) Basic principles of fluid mechanics and thermodynamics as applied to rotating machinery; ideal and actual operating characteristics of pumps, fans, turbines and compressors; design of real systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3331. MECH 6333 - Aerospace Proplsn Syst (3) Fundamentals of air-breathing and rocket propulsion devices; principles of combustion thermodynamics, gas turbine operation, solid and liquid propellants, performance evaluation, and atmospheric and space mission propulsion requirements. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4331. MECH 6337 - Internal Combustion Engines (3) Principles of Otto, Diesel, and Brayton cycle engines; effects of various fuels and fuel delivery systems, air induction systems, ignition systems, and pollution control techniques on engine performance. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3312, 3331. MECH 6339 - Appld Computational Fluid Dyna (3) Introduction to fundamental mathematical models and computational methods for simulating the physics of fluid flow and heat transfer; identify limitation of simulation approach, recognize sources of error, evaluation of solution quality. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3341, 3351. MECH 6340 - Manufacturing Processes (3) Fundamentals of mechanical behavior of materials, manufacturing properties of materials; casting, bulk deformation, sheet metal forming; material removal processes; processing of polymers, ceramics, and glasses composite materials; powder metallurgy; fastening and joining processes; nontraditional manufacturing processes; economics of integrated design and manufacturing processes. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 6342 - Intro/Packaging Engineering (3) Fundamental study of functions of packaging, packaging material, container type, processes, technology and equipment employed to protect goods during handling, shipping and storage. MECH 6344 - Mechanical Controls (3) Fundamental classical control concepts; modeling of linear mechanical control systems; transient, accuracy and performance analyses and design of control systems using root locus sketch, Nyquist diagrams and Bode plots. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3321. MECH 6345 - Design Of Mechanisms (3) Graphical and analytical mechanism synthesis techniques for path generation, function generation, rigid body guidance, and optimization of force transmission characteristics. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3321, 3323. MECH 6346 - Adv Mechanical Controls (3) Advanced modeling of mechanical control systems; review of digital and optimal control systems, and simulation of control systems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 4344. MECH 6350 - Prin Of Biomechanics (4) (7308). Biomechanics of tissues and structures of the musculoskeletal system (bone, cartilage, tendons, ligaments, peripheral nerves, and muscle), biomechanics of all joints; applications of statics, mechanics of materials, and linear viscoelasticity. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 6360 - Selection of Engr Materials (3) Detailed study of main classes of materials and their properties and uses; design criteria for various failure modes and selected environment case studies, technical tutorials and design exercises. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320, 3322. MECH 6369 - Process Engineering (3) Application of fundamental principles of fluid mechanics, heat transfer, and thermodynamics to the analysis and design, fabrication and construction of process equipment and facilities which include physical and/or chemical transformations. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3351. MECH 6371 - Mechanical Vibrations (3) Kinematics of harmonic and non-harmonic vibrations; systems of one and several degrees of freedom, free and forced vibrations; self-excited vibration. MECH 6383 - Nondestructive Test I (3) Introduction and overview; visual and optical methods; radiographic methods; ultrasonic testing; acoustic emission; magnetic methods; eddy current method; penetrant testing; standards, training, and certification issues; case studies, projects. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3323, 3341. MECH 6384 - Nondestructive Test II (3) Nuclear radiographic methods; acoustic and dynamic techniques; magnetic resonance testing; volatile liquid testing; thin-layer chromatography; thermoelastic stress analysis; research techniques, case studies, projects. PREREQUISITE: MECH 6381. MECH 6393 - Appld Finite Element Analysis (3) (Same as BIOM 6393). Fundamental topics associated with use of finite element analysis in mechanical and biomedical engineering applications; introduction to finite element theory, model generation, CAD interfacing, post-processing of results and validation. PREREQUISITE: BIOM 2810 or MECH 3322. MECH 6990 - Intro Additive Manufacturing (3) Topics are varied and announced in the online class listings. MECH 7302 - Theory Continuous Media (3) (Same as BIOM 7-8103). Analysis of stress and deformation at a point; derivation of the fundamental equations in Cartesian tensor notation by application of the basic laws of conservation of mass, energy, and momentum in mechanics and thermodynamics. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3322, 7341-8341. MECH 7303 - Advanced Dynamics (3) Formulation of three-dimensional nonlinear dynamical equations of motion for particles and rigid bodies; modeling of dynamic systems; numerical integration. PREREQUISITES; MECH 3321, 7341-8341. MECH 7305 - Inviscid Flow Theory (3) General equations of fluid mechanics; equations of two-dimensional inviscid flow; stream function and velocity potential definitions; irrotational flow; Laplace s equation in various flow fields and geometries; combined flows and superposition. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3312, 3331, 7341-8341. MECH 7306 - Viscous Flow (3) Advanced introduction to physical principles governing viscous fluid flow; fundamental equations developed from first principles and topic include: flow kinematics, derivation of Navier-Stokes equations, exact solutions of N-S equations for internal and external flows, dimensional analysis, creeping flows, Vorticity dynamics, flow control. MECH 7307 - Adv Viscous Flow (3) Advanced topics in viscous flow including incompressible and compressible boundary layer theory, free shear flows, stability analysis, turbulent flow modeling, approximate N-S solutions, non-Newtonian flows. MECH 7323 - Conduction Heat Transf (3) Fundamentals of steady-state and transient heat conduction; applications of Fourier series, Laplace transforms, finite differences, and finite elements to conduction problems. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4311, 7341-8341. MECH 7324 - Radiation Heat Transf (3) Fundamentals of radiation properties of surfaces and radiation exchange between surfaces; black, gray, and non-gray surfaces; integral and numerical techniques employed in radiation problems. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4311, 7341-8341. MECH 7325 - Convective Heat Trnsfr (3) Fundamentals of free and forced convection heat transfer using differential and integral formulation of laminar and turbulent boundary layers for flow over internal and external surfaces; influence of temperature-dependent properties; convective heat transfer at high velocities. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4311, 7341-8341. MECH 7332 - Prin Of Propulsion (3) Introduction to principles of rocket propulsion and space mechanics; topics include liquid, solid, and ion rocket motors, and orbital maneuvers employed in typical space missions. MECH 7341 - Engineering Analys I (3) Analysis of engineering systems using closed form solutions; application of Fourier series and transforms, Laplace transforms, power series methods, vector calculus, ordinary and partial differential equations. PREREQUISITE: MATH 3391. MECH 7342 - Engineering Analys II (3) Continuation of MECH 7341. Theoretical and numerical analysis of engineering systems, and other advanced topics as applied to mechanical engineering problems. Engineering applications of probability and statistics, and hypothesis tests. MECH 7355 - Engineering Optimizatn (3) Practical aspects of optimization methodology with emphasis on techniques and procedures relevant to engineering applications in design, operations, and analysis; engineering case studies. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4322, 7342-8342. MECH 7361 - Mech Bhvr Of Materials (3) Performance of materials at elevated temperatures; statistical aspect of brittle fracture; advanced treatment of fatigue failure; linear elastic fracture mechanics; friction and wear; ductile failure; strengthening mechanisms; embrittlement modes; case studies in materials selection. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320. MECH 7363 - Fracture Mechanics (3) Linear elastic analysis; elastic-plastic analysis, dynamic and time-dependent fracture; microstructural aspects of fracture; environment-assisted cracking; fatigue crack growth and propagation; analysis of engineering failures; case studies. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322, 3323. MECH 7365 - Corrosion (3) Fundamental causes and mechanisms; corrosion control; study of specific corrosion problems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320. MECH 7371 - Adv Mech Vibrations (3) Modeling of linear and nonlinear vibrational systems; control, measurement, and stability of vibrational systems. PREREQUISITES: MECH 6371, 7342-8342. MECH 7378 - Intro Comptnl Fluid Dyn (3) Introduction to computational fluid mechanics and heat transfer, finite difference and finite volume methods, stability consideration, basics of numerical computation and analysis of model equations and fluid dynamics equation. MECH 7379 - Adv Comptnl Fluid Dyn (3) Advanced introduction to state-of-the-art computational fluid dynamics; advanced grid generation, numerical schemes, and numerical boundary conditions; numerical computation of compressible inviscid and viscous flows, turbulence modeling, skill of post data process. MECH 7381 - Finite Element Methods (3) General principles and modeling of engineering systems using the finite element method; applications in fracture mechanics, hydrodynamics, and thermal conduction. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3341, 7341-8341. MECH 7382 - Software Develop (3) (Same as CIVL 7124-8124). Systematic investigation of application of good software engineering principles applied to development of computationally intensive software; best practices and methodologies developed in last two decades applied with context of a numerical problem. MECH 7391 - Packaging Dyn/Distr Pack (3) Introduction of package development process, packaging test and evaluation methods, stands, and equipments. Review of governmental regulations affecting packaging. PREREQUISITE: MECH 6341. MECH 7900 - Seminar (1) Graduate students must attend seminars regularly organized by the department. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MECH 7979 - Contemp Issues In Mech (1-3) Detailed critical reviews of the literature or supervised work on one or more contemporary issues in the field; formal report(s) required. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. This course does not count toward a degree program. MECH 7990 - Engineering Practicum (1-3) Studies of related practical mechanical engineering problems as an integral part of the established curriculum under the instruction and supervision of a faculty member. Written and oral reports are mandatory. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MECH 7991 - Research Proposal (1-3) Exhaustive literature search and presentation of both written and oral proposals on engineering topics under supervision of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MECH 7992 - Research Project (1-6) Independent research investigation of engineering problem under supervision of instructor for students in non-thesis option; both written and oral reports required. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MECH 7994 - Independent Study (1-3) Independent study in Mechanical Engineering on topic selected in conjunction with instructor. Oral and written reports required. May be used for curricular training as a part of an internship program. Only 3 credit hours can be applied to a degree program. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MECH 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. MECH 8302 - Theory Continuous Media (3) (Same as BIOM 7-8103). Analysis of stress and deformation at a point; derivation of the fundamental equations in Cartesian tensor notation by application of the basic laws of conservation of mass, energy, and momentum in mechanics and thermodynamics. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3322, 7341-8341. MECH 8303 - Advanced Dynamics (3) Formulation of three-dimensional nonlinear dynamical equations of motion for particles and rigid bodies; modeling of dynamic systems; numerical integration. PREREQUISITES; MECH 3321, 7341-8341. MECH 8305 - Inviscid Flow Theory (3) General equations of fluid mechanics; equations of two-dimensional inviscid flow; stream function and velocity potential definitions; irrotational flow; Laplace s equation in various flow fields and geometries; combined flows and superposition. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3312, 3331, 7341-8341. MECH 8306 - Viscous Flow (3) Advanced introduction to physical principles governing viscous fluid flow; fundamental equations developed from first principles and topic include: flow kinematics, derivation of Navier-Stokes equations, exact solutions of N-S equations for internal and external flows, dimensional analysis, creeping flows, Vorticity dynamics, flow control. MECH 8307 - Adv Viscous Flow (3) Advanced topics in viscous flow including incompressible and compressible boundary layer theory, free shear flows, stability analysis, turbulent flow modeling, approximate N-S solutions, non-Newtonian flows. MECH 8323 - Conduction Heat Transf (3) Fundamentals of steady-state and transient heat conduction; applications of Fourier series, Laplace transforms, finite differences, and finite elements to conduction problems. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4311, 7341-8341. MECH 8324 - Radiation Heat Transf (3) Fundamentals of radiation properties of surfaces and radiation exchange between surfaces; black, gray, and non-gray surfaces; integral and numerical techniques employed in radiation problems. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4311, 7341-8341. MECH 8325 - Convective Heat Trnsfr (3) Fundamentals of free and forced convection heat transfer using differential and integral formulation of laminar and turbulent boundary layers for flow over internal and external surfaces; influence of temperature-dependent properties; convective heat transfer at high velocities. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4311, 7341-8341. MECH 8332 - Prin Of Propulsion (3) Introduction to principles of rocket propulsion and space mechanics; topics include liquid, solid, and ion rocket motors, and orbital maneuvers employed in typical space missions. MECH 8341 - Engineering Analys I (3) Analysis of engineering systems using closed form solutions; application of Fourier series and transforms, Laplace transforms, power series methods, vector calculus, ordinary and partial differential equations. PREREQUISITE: MATH 3391. MECH 8342 - Engineering Analys II (3) Continuation of MECH 7341. Theoretical and numerical analysis of engineering systems, and other advanced topics as applied to mechanical engineering problems. Engineering applications of probability and statistics, and hypothesis tests. MECH 8355 - Engineering Optimizatn (3) Practical aspects of optimization methodology with emphasis on techniques and procedures relevant to engineering applications in design, operations, and analysis; engineering case studies. PREREQUISITES: MECH 4322, 7342-8342. MECH 8361 - Mech Behvr Of Materials (3) Performance of materials at elevated temperatures; statistical aspect of brittle fracture; advanced treatment of fatigue failure; linear elastic fracture mechanics; friction and wear; ductile failure; strengthening mechanisms; embrittlement modes; case studies in materials selection. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320. MECH 8363 - Fracture Mechanics (3) Linear elastic analysis; elastic-plastic analysis, dynamic and time-dependent fracture; microstructural aspects of fracture; environment-assisted cracking; fatigue crack growth and propagation; analysis of engineering failures; case studies. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3320, 3322, 3323. MECH 8365 - Corrosion (3) Fundamental causes and mechanisms; corrosion control; study of specific corrosion problems. PREREQUISITE: MECH 3320. MECH 8371 - Adv Mech Vibrations (3) Modeling of linear and nonlinear vibrational systems; control, measurement, and stability of vibrational systems. PREREQUISITES: MECH 6371, 7342-8342. MECH 8378 - Intro Comptnl Fluid Dyn (3) Introduction to computational fluid mechanics and heat transfer, finite difference and finite volume methods, stability consideration, basics of numerical computation and analysis of model equations and fluid dynamics equation. MECH 8379 - Adv Comptnl Fluid Dyn (3) Advanced introduction to state-of-the-art computational fluid dynamics; advanced grid generation, numerical schemes, and numerical boundary conditions; numerical computation of compressible inviscid and viscous flows, turbulence modeling, skill of post data process. MECH 8381 - Finite Element Methods (3) General principles and modeling of engineering systems using the finite element method; applications in fracture mechanics, hydrodynamics, and thermal conduction. PREREQUISITES: MECH 3341, 7341-8341. MECH 8382 - Software Develop (3) (Same as CIVL 7124-8124). Systematic investigation of application of good software engineering principles applied to development of computationally intensive software; best practices and methodologies developed in last two decades applied with context of a numerical problem. MECH 8391 - Packaging Dyn/Distr Pack (3) Introduction to package development process, packaging test and evaluation methods, stands, and equipments. Review of governmental regulations affecting packaging. PREREQUISITE: MECH 6341. MECH 8979 - Contemp Issues in Mech (1-3) Detailed critical reviews of the literature or supervised work on one or more contemporary issues in the field; formal report(s) required. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. This course does not count toward a degree program. MECH 8990 - Engineering Practicum (1-3) Studies of related practical mechanical engineering problems as an integral part of the established curriculum under the instruction and supervision of a faculty member. Written and oral reports are mandatory. Grades of S, U, or I will be given. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MECH 8991 - Research Proposal (1-3) Exhaustive literature search and presentation of both written and oral proposals on engineering topics under supervision of instructor. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. MECH 8994 - Independent Study (1-3) Independent study in Mechanical Engineering on topic selected in conjunction with instructor. Oral and written reports required. May be used for curricular training as a part of an internship program. Only 3 credit hours can be applied to a degree program. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. MECH 9000 - Dissertation (1-12) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .