#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/services/life.php
Student Life - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Services to Students Student Life Student Life Student Life offers students a wide variety of services and learning experiences outside the formal classroom setting. Included in the area of Student Life are the departments of Adult and Commuter Student Services, Campus Recreation and Intramural Services, Multicultural Affairs, Office of Student Conduct, and Student Leadership and Involvement. The Office of Student Life also serves as liaison with Religious Life staff and as advisor to the Student Government Association. Information may be obtained from the Office of the Dean of Students, room 359 University Center. Adult and Commuter Student Services , 243 University Center, offers an abundance of amenities to help the adult and non-traditional veteran or commuter student become better acquainted with student lift. The office provides a computer lab, a quiet study area, a lounge space with free coffee and hot chocolate, transportation and off-campus housing informaiton, monthly seminars, and the Adult and Commuter Connection e-newsletter. The Adult Student Association, is geared toward non-traditional college students, usually age 25 and older, with an informal way to receive support during their educational experience, and to express concern about any particular issues that may arise. Campus Recreation and Intramural Services contributes to the health, physical, psychological and social well-being of the university community by serving students, faculty, staff, alumni and friends of the University of Memphis. Participation in sports and other leisure activites contributes to the total educational process through the development of skill essential for everyday life. The Student Recreational and Fitness Center is the primary venue for recreation at the University. At this location CRIS provides pools, weight and cardio area, equipment purchase and rental, outdoor and indoor gyms, field space, tennis and sand volleyball courts, exercise classes, fitness programs, personal training, massage therapy, swim lessons, clinics, informal recreation, special events, and competitive intramural and club sports focusing on our increasing leisure time. The student oriented CRIS staff offer a wide variety of programs and give personal attention to the needs of all individual participants. Child Development Center provides childcare services are available for the University of Memphis students. Space is available on a first come/first serve basis. The center accepts children between the ages of 30 months and 12 years. During the fall and spring semesters, the center's hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The summer semester operating hours are Monday through Thursday from 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. and Friday from 6:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Hours of operation may vary and be based on enrollment. For additional information, come to the Child Development Center located at 3875 Tiger Paw South (Northeast of the Central Avenue Parking Lot-adjacent to the University town-home community). Dining Services Tiger Dining offers a variety of dining facilities, vending areas, and coffee bars in a variety of locations on campus, including two all-you-care-to-eat options, Fresh Food Company and Just For You, the Union Food Court that includes a Burger King Whopper Bar, Taco Bell, Topio's Pizza, and several other national brands including, Einstein's Bagels, Chick-fil-a, and Dunkin' Donuts. Tiger Dining also offers a variety of meal plans for students living on and off campus. Multicultural Affairs . The Office of Multicultural Affairs, 223 University Center,provides a welcoming and supportive environment that advises students of color with regard to their academic, social, cultural, and financial affairs. With a caring, professional staff, the office helps students adjust to learning, living, and working in a large university setting. Students also utilize the office as a source of information about opportunities for leadership development, conferences, internships, scholarships, professional schools, and community involvement. The office is home to several student organizations, including the Black Student Association, Black Scholars Unlimited, Empowered Men of Color (EMOC), the Hispanic Student Association, and the University of Memphis chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). All U of M students are encouraged to join these organizations, and can visit the office in 223 University Center. Office of Student Conduct, 359 University Center, is responsible for the administration of the University of Memphis Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities, which outlines the rules and regulations necessary to govern the behavior of students and student organization. Student Leadership and Involvement , 211 University Center, provides programs and opportunities through which students may become meaningfully involved in campus life. Student Leadership and Involvement includes Greek Affairs, Student Activities Council, Registered Student Organizations, Leadership Programs, and Community Service. Greek Life: Fifteen international fraternities and eleven international sororities are active on the University of Memphis campus. The University strives to maintain a strong Greek community through coordination of Greek activities provided by the Office of Greek Affairs in areas of social service, philanthropy, scholarship, spiritual life, social development, and sense of leadership. Fraternities : Alpha Phi Alpha, Alpha Tau Omega, Iota Phi Theta, Kappa Alpha Order, Kappa Alpha Psi, Lambda Chi Alpha, Omega Psi Phi, Phi Beta Sigma, Phi Gamma Delta, Pi Kappa Alpha, Pi Kappa Phi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Chi, and Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Zeta Beta Tau. Sororities : Alpha Delta Pi, Alpha Gamma Delta, Alpha Kappa Alpha, Delta Gamma, Delta Sigma Theta, Kappa Delta, Interested Ladies of Lambda Theta Alpha, Phi Mu, Pi Beta Phi, Sigma Gamma Rho, and Zeta Phi Beta. Student Activities Council is the principal programming body for the University community. It is composed primarily of student volunteers for the purpose of providing social, cultural, recreational and educational activities, and events that appeal to a wide variety of interests. Music, comedy, films, lectures and cultural events are just a few of the many activities planned and facilitated by the Student Activities Council (SAC). Student Organizations Over 200 student organizations are registered with the University. Student organizations represent a broad range of endeavors including academic, social, spiritual, cultural, service, recreational, and special interest. For information, contact the Office of Student Activities, room 425, University Center. Service (Volunteerism and Service-Learning) The Student Leadership and Involvement Office promotes and supports service efforts by the University of Memphis students and works with local community agencies to engage students in a variety of meaningful service activities. The office serves as a resource center for community service programming in order to help students expand their understanding of social/community issues, develop leadership skills, and work on solutions to real life problems. For more information on these initiatives, contact the Office of Students Activities, room 425, University Center. Religious Affairs is comprised of several religious organizations that provide activities and communities that focus on the religious or spiritual development of University students. Many of these organizations have ministry facilities close to campus or utilize University facilities for their programs. Organized religious groups include: Baptist Collegiate Ministry, Campus Outreach, Catholic Campus Ministry, Christian Student Center (Soma - Church of Christ), Hillel of Memphis (Jewish Student Union), Presbyterian Place, RUF (Reformed University Fellowship), and Wesley Foundation (United Methodist). There are also numerous religious registered student organizations on campus. Student Judicial and Ethical Programs The Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Programs is responsible for the administration and coordination of student disciplinary actions involving both social and academic misconduct under the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities. The office is also a resource for the interpretation of policies that affect students and for programs on ethics and academic integrity. The Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Programs is located in room 105, University Center. Student Government The Student Government Association (SGA) of the University of Memphis is a unique organization of students who work together and are committed to improving the University community. SGA represents all students, graduate and undergraduate, and strives to bring each student's interest to the forefront. The University of Memphis SGA consists of the Executive members, the Senate, the Student Court, and the Freshmen Council. The SGA office is located in room 411, University Center. University Center and the Michael D. Rose Theatre are the center of community life on campus. Together they host many of the meetings, programs, and events that make up campus life. The complex features two theatres, a ballroom, and numerous other meeting and event spaces. In addition, the UC is home to nearly two dozen student organizations, as well as multiple offices that support student engagement and involvement. Services available in the UC include: a 24-hour student computer lab; copy center, information desk, campus scheduling, campus postal station (and mailboxes), the Union Food Court, Tigers Restaurant, Tiger Catering, and The Union Market/Dunkin Donuts. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .