#http://www.memphis.edu/reslife/pdf/installplan.pdf
THE UNIVERSITY OF MEMPHIS DEPARTMENT OF RESIDENCE LIFE & DINING SERVICES INSTALLMENT PLAN INFORMATION This installment plan is available for the fall and spring semesters only. There are no installment arrangements for the summer sessions. Af ter students are assigned a room, a $200 rental prepayment is due at a specific time designated in Students in good financial standing with the University may elect to sign up for the Installment Payment Plan with the Burs rent which will be added to the enrollment fees. You may sign up for an installment plan through the An initial down payment of 50% of the enrollment fees and the residence hall rent will be required after all financial aid (grants and student loans), scholarships, and/or third party assistance award amounts have been applied. An E nrollment F ee of $50 will be assessed for the at the time of sign up and a $40 R esidence H all I nstallment F ee will be added approximately 30 days after classes begin. If both tuition and housing are in the plan, the total enrollment fees will be $90. The remain ing fee balance is due in two separate installments; one - half (1/2) is due by October 1 in the fall semester, March 1 in the spring semester, and the remaining amount is due by November 1 in the fall, and April 1 in the spring. Students remain responsible for the installment payments by the specified deadline even if they do not receive or open their fee invoice, which will be available on TigerXpress. The Installment Payment Plan enrollment period ends on the extended fee payment deadline for fall and spr ing semesters. Students assigned to the residence halls after this deadline may be placed on installment plans for rent only. Specific dates installment s are due will be determined by date assignment is made. A $25 Late Payment Fee will be assessed on ea ch installment, for both tuition ($25 per deadline) and housing ($25 per deadline), that is not receive by the University on or before the due date. If all installment payments are late, the maximum amount for late IPP fees per semester is $100. Before en rolling in the IPP, students will be required to read and accept terms of the plan. Students canceling their room assignments will still be responsible for rent based on the cancellation deadline specified in the Residence Life and Dining Services Inform ation Brochure and the website . Unpaid installment amounts will cause holds to be placed on registering for the next term, viewing/receiving grades for current or future terms, or receiving transcripts/diplomas The IPP is not available for students who wer e deleted for non - payment and have subsequently been approved for reinstatement or who are registered late by exception. The University reserves the right to deny students the privilege of using the Installment Payment Plan. All payments must be made to t - 0313, or 115 Wilder Tower or on line through TigerXpress. - 678 - 2712.