#http://www.memphis.edu/aa/resources/docs/nfo_ppt.pdf
LMS Top Five Ways You Can Use eCourseware this Fall memphis.edu/instructionalimpact | um3d@memphis.edu | 678 - 2783 Faculty Sandbox Course elearn.memphis.edu memphis.edu/instructionalimpact | um3d@memphis.edu | 678 - 2783 Login Information: Username: faculty Password: faculty 1. Track Attendance Daily Password Quiz 1. Track Attendance Weekly Discussions 1. Track Attendance Polling and Software Tools 1. Track Attendance Intelligent Agent 1. Track Attendance 2. Go Paperless Course News and Updates 2. Go Paperless Syllabus and Course Schedule 2. Go Paperless Automated Course Notifications 2. Go Paperless Course Resources 2. Go Paperless 3. Streamline Communication Class Announcements 3. Streamline Communication Group Discussions 3. Streamline Communication Synchronous Chat 3. Streamline Communication Course Knowledgebase 3. Streamline Communication 4. Manage Progress Control Access 4. Manage Progress Content Release 4. Manage Progress 5. Leverage Course Data Dynamic Gradebook 5. Leverage Course Data Monitor Logins 5. Leverage Course Data Track Access to Content 5. Leverage Course Data Connect with Us memphis.edu/instructionalimpact | um3d@memphis.edu | 678 - 2783 UofM Online on Google Plus UofM Online Request to Join UM3D Toolkit Visit blogs.memphis.edu and enter your email to subscribe . Events memphis.edu/instructionalimpact/events Questions? memphis.edu/instructionalimpact | um3d@memphis.edu | 678 - 2783 Getting Support memphis.edu/instructionalimpact | um3d@memphis.edu | 678 - 2783 Technology Support: ITS Trainers umtech@memphis.edu 901.678.8888 Instructional Support: UM3D: Instructional Impact um3d@memphis.edu 901.678.2783 Preferred Business Card Faculty Business Card Lambuth Business Card UofM Official Email Signature Guidelines for Use The signatures below are provided for use by all faculty and staff. Official signatures are not for student use. Content within the signature can be edited, but no additions (i.e. "Think before you print") can be made. The template cannot be altered. You can choose to include a cell or fax number instead of a website, or an email address instead of a mailing address, for example. A title can extend to two lines, but the text to the right of the logo (between the lines) must be limited to the 4 lines as shown. Digital versions of handwritten signatures can be added to the top of signature card. Requests for exceptions to the signature card can be submitted to the Vice President of External Relations. If using mobile device that does not support HTML signatures, use the text portion. See example below: Tom Tiger Title | Optional Secondary Title Department The University of Memphis 100 Administration Building | Memphis, TN 38152 901.678.1234 | memphis.edu Social Media Icons The icons shown currently link to the UofM's social media. If you would like to change these to represent your department or college platforms, please contact nelloyd@memphis.edu and include your social media links. A custom signature will be created for you. Additional buttons are available for YouTube, LinkedIn, etc. Action buttons such as Apply Now, Buy Tickets, Make a Gift, etc. can be created upon request. Icons must retain the same shape and blue color. Including social media icons is optional. The icons should link to University, College or Departmental accounts only. Guidelines for Composing an Email To ensure a consistent brand image, please follow these guidelines when creating an email: The email background should be white Type should be Calibri font, black text and between 12 - 16 pt font size Additional text within the signature area is prohibited For additional support, contact nelloyd@memphis.edu or 901.678.5016. Visit memphis.edu / emailsignatures The Office of Legal Counsel New Faculty Orientation Four Pieces of Legal Advice Issue Spotting Find and follow the rules The Modified Miranda Warning Call for Help Issue Spotting law is, but you should recognize when legal issues arise and call for help. Issue Spotting - High Risk Issues Any allegation of discrimination Personnel matters Disability accommodations for students Sexual harassment/sexual misconduct Academic Misconduct Find and Follow the Rules UofM Policies and Procedures Faculty Handbook ook/index.php Office for Institutional Equity Find and Follow the Rules Disability Resources for Students http :// / Office of Student Conduct / And also check school and departmental handbooks! The Modified Miranda Warning This includes everything you write EVEN EMAIL. During the litigation process, the plaintiff can request every scrap of paper and all electronic data relating to the dispute. Something carelessly scribbled down can and will be used in the case. Call for Help If you spot an issue you think might be a legal one, call. Office of Legal Counsel 201 Administration Building Tel: (901) 678 - 2155 Melanie Murry, University Counsel Latosha Dexter, Deputy University Counsel Billy Mueller, Assistant University Counsel