#http://www.memphis.edu/studentlife/departments/
Department in Student Life - Student Life / Dean of Students - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Student Life / Dean of Students About Behavioral Intervention Team Departments Carson Scholarship Religious Life Departments Overview Deans and Directors Home Student Life / Dean of Students Departments About Student Life Departments Adult and Commuter Student Services (ACSS) ACSS serves the unique needs of adult and commuter students by providing information, resources, programming, consultation, and opportunities for involvement. Services provided help adult and commuter students manage their multiple responsibilities effectively while developing the skills to achieve their academic, personal, and career goals. The University of Memphis Veterans Resource Center supports the transition from military life to civilian life. The Veterans Resource Center (VRC) is committed to providing veterans, active-duty, National Guard, reservists and qualified dependents with the services necessary to pursue their academic and personal interests, integrate into the campus community and ultimately ensure a successful experience. The VRC operates under the umbrella of Adult and Commuter Student Services. Conference and Event Services Memphis' central location is closer to more markets than any other city in the United States – a geographical advantage that's economical and convenient for your conference delegates. The full complement of conference facilities at the University of Memphis reflects the city's technological and commercial success. Dozens of conference venue options range from mid-tech to extreme-tech. Choose the University of Memphis and discover why meeting in the middle can be as gratifying for your group as it will be for you. The University Center, along with its companion, the Michael D. Rose Theatre Lecture Hall, are the two common centers of the University for all members of the University family — students, faculty, staff, alumni and guests. These two facilities are the home for a wide variety of services, organizations, and programs that support and enhance the University's mission of promoting learning. As the living rooms or the hearthstone of the University, they provide the services, conveniences, and amenities the members of the University family need in their daily life on the campus, and for getting to know one another through informal association outside the classroom. These two facilities are a part of the educational programs of the University. As the center of University community life, they serve as a laboratory of citizenship, training students in social, cultural, educational responsibilities and for leadership in our democracy. These two learning labs serve as a unifying force in the life of the University, cultivating enduring regard for and loyalty to the University. Office of Multicultural Affairs The mission of Multicultural Affairs is to promote and advance the personal development and academic success of students from various cultures enrolled at the University of Memphis. This is accomplished by developing and administering programs, activities and services that address the social, educational, cultural and personal needs of these students. Events are held throughout the academic year for students. These activities are sponsored and coordinated by the Multicultural Affairs Office, with some co-sponsorship from the Student Activities Council and the Student Affairs Division. Office of Student Conduct To promote student learning through discipline that is creative and thought-provoking which focuses on pursuing the truth and fairness to all involved, while maintaining the integrity of the disciplinary process and fostering the University's educational goals, mission and values. Residence Life The University Of Memphis campus offers eight different residence halls and Graduate and Student Family Housing for graduate students or students who are married or have families. Whether you are interested in a traditional style residence hall or apartment style living, The University of Memphis has accommodations to meet your needs. Our Child Care Center is designed to meet the needs of the student-parents at the University. We provide quality childcare to these parents, while they pursue their own education. We provide care for children ages 30 months to twelve years. Student Leadership and Involvement The Office of Student Leadership and Involvement provides programs and opportunities through which students may become meaningfully involved in campus life. Our programs and activities support the Student Life mission of enhancing the learning, educational growth, and development of students. These programs and initiatives include the Student Government Association, campus wide entertainment, cultural and educational programs (concerts, speakers, etc.), Greek organizations, volunteer service, leadership, recognition, and student organizations. Departments Overview Deans and Directors Student Handbook View or download the UofM Student Handbook Support for Nursing Mothers Information for individuals desiring on-campus space for purposes of nursing Voter Information Voter registration and location information for campus community Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/26/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .