#http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/edpr/news.php
News - CEPR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Counseling, Educational Psychology &amp; Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Ed Psych &amp; Research Faculty Research EDPR Menu Degrees &amp; Certificates M.S. Online M.S. Ph.D. Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Research Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions Apply M.S. Application M.S. Online Application Ph.D. Application International Students Graduate Assistantships Graduate Catalog Research EDPR Colloquia A-Team Childhood Study Group QUIC SPIRIT Professional Associations Statistical Consulting Undergraduate Educational Research Team View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Home CEPR EDPR News Student, Alumni, &amp; Faculty News Dr. Denise Winsor, in conjunction with Douglass Elementary, was awarded the Arts Builds Communities Grant through the Tennessee Arts Commission. Several students were graduated at Commencement on Sunday, May 10. Congratulations to Dr. Constance Tucker, Michael Woods, and Kathryn Sharpe. Congratulations to Dr. Susan Nordstrom and Dr. Alison Happel-Parkins! Dr. Nordstrom received an award from the College of Education, Health and Human Services for her research, and Dr. Happel-Parkins received an award for her service. Katharina Barth, an EDPR Ph.D. student, has been awarded a $1,000 travel award by the Engaged Scholarship Committee to support her presentation of "An Intergenerational Community-Based Arts and Literacy Program in a Shelter for Families Who are Homeless" at the American Educational Research Association Conference in Chicago in April. She is the first student recipient of this award. Congratulations, Kathi! Congratulations to Dr. Shea Kidd Houze, who was hooded by Dr. Alison Happel in December 2014. Dr. Houze is the Associate Director for External Affairs at the University of Southern Mississippi. Research associate is rated #4 in the highest-rated jobs for people in their 20s . How do you land a position of research associate? Start with a certificate and/or graduate degree in Educational Research! The Fall 2014 Colloquia schedule is out! Click here to access more information about this series. WELCOME to our new Assistant Professors, Leigh Harrell-Williams and Chia-Chen Yang. Dr. Harrell-Williams completed her Ph.D. at Virginia Tech and a post-doc at Georgia State University. A quantitative researcher, Dr. Harrell-Williams' research focuses on item response theory, pre-service K-12 mathematics teacher self-efficacy to teach statistics,and universal screening for behavioral and emotional risk. Dr. Yang comes to Memphis from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where her work focused on how electronic media and devices may influence adolescents' psychosocial well-being and academic performance. She has a B.A. in Foreign Languages and Literatures with a minor degree in Psychology and an M.S. in Educational Psychology. We are excited to have two visiting professors for the 2014-15 academic year: Dr. Joe Blackbourn and Dr. Jin Kong. Congrats to Dr. Rashunda Stitt, who has begun postdoc work at Howard University. The project, HU ADVANCE-IT, is an NSF-grant-funded initiative to effect institutional transformation for women faculty in STEM at Howard. She is working on the social sciences aspect of the study, which focuses on the experiences of the STEM female faculty at Howard. Rashunda graduated in August 2014, having successfully defended her dissertations entitled "Sounds like something a White man should be doing: Academic identity in African American female engineering students." Dr. Chris Mueller was her advisor. The Jubilee Summer Enrichment Reading Program (J-SERP) was a joint partnership/collaboration among participating staff, teachers, and administrators at the Jubilee Schools of Memphis; faculty of the University of Memphis (Drs. Chris Mueller, Denise Winsor, and Beth Meisinger); and those providing ongoing generous financial support for the J-SERP program. The J-SERP program consisted of a six-week long summer day camp targeting rising third- and fourth-grade children currently attending one of the area Jubilee Schools. The goal of the 2014 pilot program was twofold: to attenuate documented losses of academic skills occurring for many Jubilee students during the summer months (i.e., the summer slump), and to improve children's foundational literacy skills (reading fluency, reading comprehension, and vocabulary). The J-SERP pilot program was based on the Quick Reads (Hiebert, 2003) curriculum, and included program evaluation as an overall part of the program. To find out more, please read the article. Dr. Yonghong Jade Xu is part of a CEPR team that received a $40,000 research grant from the Tennessee Board of Regents in a competitive evaluation process. This research will focus on STEM student graduation rates. Congratulations to two of our faculty members: Dr. Karen Weddle-West has been named Interim Provost at the UofM, and Dr. Ernie Rakow has been named Interim Dean of the College of Education, Health, and Human Sciences. Congratulations to Dr. Caro Hart (Ph.D., 2013), who has accepted a teaching position at Westfield State University, where her husband will also be teaching. Drs. Denise Winsor, Vicki Murrell, and Susan Magun-Jackson have published Lifespan Development: An Educational Psychology Perspective, written by faculty and graduate assistants in the EDPR program. It will be used primarily as a text for the EDPR 2111 courses but is being used outside of the University of Memphis as well. EDPR Menu Degrees &amp; Certificates M.S. Online M.S. Ph.D. Graduate Certificate in Qualitative Research Graduate Certificate in Quantitative Research Courses Faculty News Student Resources Admissions Apply M.S. Application M.S. Online Application Ph.D. Application International Students Graduate Assistantships Graduate Catalog Research EDPR Colloquia A-Team Childhood Study Group QUIC SPIRIT Professional Associations Statistical Consulting Undergraduate Educational Research Team View our brochure! Like us on Facebook! Admissions Current Students Student Organizations Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .