#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/news/archive_flash/2015sept/05_cook_trust.php
Cook Trust enables Fogelman College to sponsor the 2015 Oxford Analytica Global Horizons Conference in Oxford, England - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Home FCBE News Cook Trust enables Fogelman College to sponsor the 2015 Oxford Analytica Global Horizons Conference in Oxford, England Cook Trust enables Fogelman College to sponsor the 2015 Oxford Analytica Global Horizons Conference in Oxford, England Last week, representatives from the Fogelman College of Business and Economics (FCBE) travelled to Oxford, England for Oxford Analytica's 2015 Global Horizons Conference. This incredible opportunity was enabled by Michael Cook, chairman &amp; CEO of SouthernSun Asset Management and founder of the Cook Trust. Furthermore, the Cook Trust generously funded Fogelman College's participation and sponsorship of the international event. Among the FCBE group to attend the conference was Dr. Rajiv Grover, dean, Dr. Balaji Krishnan, professor and director of MBA Programs, Rebecca Koch, International MBA student, and Anna Michael, marketing manager. Rebecca Koch, current FCBE International MBA student, attending one of the Oxford Analytica Global Horizons Conference sessions. Oxford Analytica is a global analysis and advisory firm which draws on a worldwide network of experts to advise its clients on their strategy and performance. Their services include the Daily Brief which delivers global analysis that gives top corporate and government executives a proven edge in predicting the course of key trends and preparing for contingencies. Through daily dissection and analysis of fresh developments in global politics, macroeconomics and the political economy — guided by the latest academic research — the Daily Brief offers qualitative predictions and guidance as to the impact of events 'just over the horizon'. Through the valued partnership between Oxford Analytica and the Cook Trust, Fogelman College is the only business school world-wide to have access to this instrumental tool. The Daily Brief insights are utilized by Fogelman classes to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the global environment in an academic setting. Additionally, the Cook Trust was responsible for the development of the state-of-the-art Cook Analytics and Trading Lab, which is equipped with Bloomberg terminals, that was unveiled at Fogelman College late last year. "I am extremely grateful for our partnerships with the Cook Trust and Oxford Analytica. After years of espousing the importance of the role of trusted advisors, of rigorous methodologies for collection and analysis of data, and of actionable insights for the very survival of an organization, I am now heartened to see that this partnership will allow us inculcate these constructs, and at a global level at that, for Fogelman's sustainable competitive advantage," said Dean Rajiv Grover. Throughout this conference, Fogelman College was highly represented among some of the top-level executives and experts of various industries across the globe. Thanks to the generosity of the Cook Trust, Fogelman College also received a two-page advertisement in the conference program which was distributed among all of the conference attendees. Fogelman College's Advertisement in the 2015 Oxford Analytic Global Horizons Conference. The Oxford Analytica Global Horizons Conference was an unprecedented and welcomed opportunity to share Fogelman's mission of training students for excellent-decision making – for which forward-looking, accurate and complete insights are essential. Dean Grover also served as a moderator for one of the panels entitled, "Getting the Measure: Finding signals in a noisy world." His panelists included Michael Cook, founder, chairman &amp; CEO of SouthernSun Asset Management; Tim Baker, global head of content strategy &amp; innovation at Thomson Reuters; Lakshmi Shyam-Sunder, vice president and World Bank group chief risk officer; and, Philip Mudd, director of enterprise risk &amp; advisor at SouthernSun Asset Management. Some of the attendees and speakers included Jay Ireland, president &amp; CEO of GE Africa, and George Papandreou, former prime minister of Greece and president of the Movement of Democratic Socialists, to name a few. News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .