#http://www.memphis.edu/shs/programs/dietetics.php
Dietetics - SHS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Health Studies About Programs Students Faculty Research Centers News Contact SHS Programs Undergraduate Dietetics Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Graduate Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Nutrition Science Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Commerce Home SHS Programs Dietetics Dietetics Introduction Welcome to The University of Memphis 's undergraduate Dietetics Program. Our mission is to graduate students with knowledge and skills to positively impact the nutritional health of the global community. We are particularly proud to be able to offer our students service-learning, research, study abroad and internship opportunities. The dietetics concentration is accredited as a didactic program in dietetics (DPD) by the Accreditation Council for Education of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) , 120 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 2000, Chicago, IL 60606, 800-877-1600 ext. 5400. Our curriculum provides foundation knowledge and skills in the areas of communications, physical and biological sciences, social sciences, research, food, nutrition, management, and health care systems. Graduates of our program are competent in their ability to effectively communicate, apply scientific methods and the nutrition care process, and to use tools of professional management. All program graduates receive an ACEND- Verification of Completion Statement and are eligible to apply for a supervised practice program (dietetic internship). Dietetic internship graduates are eligible to complete the national registration examination to become a registered dietitian (RD). All program graduates are eligible to take the dietetic technician registration examination. Program graduates who choose not to apply for a dietetic internship appointment have varied career options. They select careers in extension services, business, health care, and education. Graduates are prepared to apply for graduate/professional post-baccalaureate programs. The prospective intern must make entry into the D &amp; D Digital Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Internship Matching. Applications for the April match must be received by D &amp; D no later than the second week in February. Check the D &amp; D site for the exact deadline date. Applications received after the postmark deadline will not be considered. More information about D &amp; D may be obtained from your undergraduate didactic director. Information about admission , tuition , housing , graduation , and the academic calendar can be found on the university website ( ). The University Student Handbook provides a Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities. To find information on academic regulations, financial aid, and support services for students browse the university Undergraduate Bulletin . This is an exciting time to choose a career in dietetics! We hope this site provides helpful information about our program and profession. We want to answer all of your questions, so don’t hesitate to contact me. Admission For Degree-Seeking Students Dietetics program admission follows the University Admission Criteria and Application Process. Criteria and deadlines are available in the Undergraduate Bulletin . Applications are taken online. When completing the application your major will be Health and Human Performance with a concentration in Dietetics. For Students with a Bachelor's Degree The admission procedure is described below for students who have already completed a bachelor's degree and only need to complete DPD coursework. Submit an official copy of all transcripts to Mary Catherine Schallert, Program Director, The University of Memphis, School of Health Studies, Memphis, TN 38152 Students who completed their degree(s) outside of the United States and its territories must have their academic degree validated and a course-by-course evaluation completed. Refer to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics website for a list of independent Foreign Degree Evaluation Agencies . Contact the agency for current information and costs. Submit an official report to Mrs. Schallert that includes degree and course equivalency. Send an email to Mrs. Schallert requesting an Official DPD Evaluation. Include a list of all transcripts that she can expect, your mailing address, email address, and phone number. Allow 2 - 4 weeks to receive the DPD Evaluation via email after the transcripts have been received. Summer requests may take longer. If you decide to complete The University of Memphis DPD Program, follow The University of Memphis Undergraduate Admission Procedures . Scholarship and Financial Aid Information regarding standard financial aid can be found on the following University of Memphis website: Information regarding academic scholarships can be found on the following University of Memphis website: Students who are members of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and/or the Memphis Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics are eligible to apply for dietetics specific scholarships and financial aid. Information regarding application and deadlines for scholarships provided by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Foundation can be found at the following address: Information regarding application and deadlines for scholarships awarded by the Tennessee Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and the Memphis Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics can be found at the following websites: and Mission To prepare graduates with knowledge and skills to positively impact the nutritional health of the global community. Program Goal 1 The program will produce competitive graduates for entry-level dietetics positions across the U.S. Objectives for Goal: 1.1 80% of graduates will receive at least a successful performance evaluation in their clinical nutrition internship course. 1.2 80% of graduating seniors will report "satisfaction" with the DPD program. 1.3 Over a five-year period, 80% of those applying to supervised practice programs the academic year they complete the program will be accepted. 1.4 Over a five-year period, the pass rate for alumni taking the registration examination for the first time will be at least 80%. Program Goal 2 The program will encourage, motivate, and support students to participate in experiences that promote lifelong learning and achieve professional goals. Objectives for Goal: 2.1 At least 50% of students will participate in nutrition/food/health related volunteer activities. 2.2 At least 50% of students will attend a minimum of one local, state, or national dietetic association meeting. 2.3 At least 30% of students will be employed in nutrition/food/health-related jobs. 2.4 At least 30% of students will hold leadership positions with campus and/or community organizations. 2.5 At least 50% of alumni will report involvement in local, state, or national dietetic associations. Program outcome data is available upon request. Curriculum The links provided below will provide additional information on the Dietetics degree as well as the program curriculum. Dietetics Degree Sheet Dietetics Fact Sheet The Dietetics 4 Year Program Schedule Course Prerequisites The DPD Program Course Work Students are encouraged to maintain at least a 3.25 GPA to be competitive for a dietetic internship appointment. In addition to tuition, book, and laboratory fees, students enrolled in NUTR 4605: Internship in Nutrition are required to complete a background check through PreCheck at the approximate cost of $50: . These students must also be up-to-date on immunizations, have a negative result on a TB skin test, have completed a basic physical exam, and carry their own student liability insurance policy (Approximately $25 through the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics) prior to entering their assigned facility for clinical observation. For a complete listing policies and procedures- please view the student handbook. Additional costs are involved with the Food science courses, but are clearly outlined in the syllabi of the respective courses. Study Abroad Each year, faculty members within the School of Health Studies lead students on a study abroad expedition. Students receive course credit and greatly benefit from the overall experience. For more information pertaining to the upcoming trip, please contact Mary Catherine Schallert . For Additional Information, Application, and Scholarship Information: Click here . Dietetics Student Handbook For comprehensive information regarding the University of Memphis Didactic Program in Nutrition and Dietetics, including policies and procedures as they relate to students enrolled in the program, please read the Dietetics Student Handbook . For Additional Information about The University of Memphis Student Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (SAND): Click here. SHS Programs Undergraduate Dietetics Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Graduate Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Nutrition Science Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Commerce Apply Submit your application today Undergraduate Advising We’re always here to help Graduate Advising Faculty advisors aid in your success Degree Sheets Review the courses you’ll be taking Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .