#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/ccfa/architecture.php
Architecture - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Architecture Architecture Department of Architecture Architecture (B.F.A.) The Department of Architecture consists of the Architecture Program and the Interior Design Program. The mission of the Department of Architecture is to prepare graduates to enter the professional practice of architecture and interior design and to serve the Memphis and Mid-South region through research, engaged scholarship, interdisciplinary collaboration, and creative expression that contributes to sustainable, stable communities and enhances the quality of life for all citizens. The goals and objectives of the Department are as follows: to provide the highest quality professional education through a well-rounded discovery-based curriculum in both the art and science of design with emphasis on processes, professional standards, and the practical application of design and technology; to provide research opportunities for faculty and students with emphasis on “hands on” multi-disciplinary projects through which students gain valuable professional experience while providing services to the citizens of the region; and to expand opportunities for Architecture and Interior Design students by bringing them together with faculty and students in the City Planning, Real Estate Development, and other programs to address public issues, support stable and sustainable neighborhoods, and develop community visions throughout the region. The Bachelor of Fine Arts with a major in Architecture is a pre-professional degree. At the University of Memphis, the professional degree in Architecture is the Master of Architecture degree. See the Graduate Catalog for details. NOTE: Before enrolling in any Architecture course, all applicants seeking admission to the B.F.A. with a major in Architecture must complete and submit to the Department of Architecture an application form, a writing assignment, and a portfolio of five representative works. These three components comprise the Incoming Evaluation for Architecture and will be reviewed by a faculty committee. Applicants are accepted on the basis of potential in the field of architecture. After review, the department notifies the student of one of the following: (1) acceptance, (2) one semester acceptance on a probationary basis, (3) recommendation to correct the deficiencies and reapply, or (4) denial of admission. Permission to enroll in any Architecture courses for which a permit is required beyond first semester, first year is based upon this review. Contact the Department of Architecture for details and deadline. Students transferring from another major or another institution who intend to pursue a B.F.A. degree with a major in Architecture must complete the Department of Architecture Incoming Evaluation prior to enrolling in Architecture courses. Transfer students seeking advanced standing in the Architecture major should submit a portfolio of work representing previously completed Architecture studio work. The review committee will determine if the portfolio work is equivalent to comparable courses at the University of Memphis. Placement in the major is dependent upon the review. Even if admitted to advanced standing, the student may be required to remedy previous course deficiencies. A. University General Education Program (41 hours). See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Note the following are specified by the department for this program: Mathematics: MATH 1730 or 1830; Social/Behavioral Sciences: ANTH 1200 and SOCI 1010; Natural Science: PHYS 2010/2011 and ESCI 1010, 1020, or 1040 plus labs; Humanities: ARTH 2010 and 2020; History: HIST 1110 and 1120. B. The Major (87 hours) 1. Major Foundation Core (32 hours) ARCH 1111, 1112, 1113, 1120, 1211, 2212, 2411, 2412, 2611, 2711. 2. The Major Entrance - Completion of Major Core (32 hours) Candidacy Review and Portfolio Requirements - A Candidacy Review is required of all students intending to major in Architecture. Admission to the University of Memphis and completion of the major core do not guarantee placement in the program. Admission is selective and is based on a portfolio evaluation reflecting professional standards and expectations of the major. A portfolio that includes but is not limited to works from the major core courses is required as part of the application. Guidelines and application forms for admission to the Architecture major are available in the department office and from faculty advisors. Consultation with a faculty advisor is recommended before or during portfolio preparation. Students may submit portfolios for review no earlier than the semester that Candidacy requirements are being completed. Transfer students must meet entrance requirements of the major. After review, the department notifies the student of one of the following: (1) acceptance, (2) one semester acceptance on a probationary basis, (3) recommendation to correct the deficiencies and reapply, or (4) denial of admission. Permission to enroll in any 3000-4000 level Architecture course is based upon this review. 3. Completion of Major (52 hours) - ARCH 2612, 2712, 3221, 3222, 3321, 3322, 3421, 3613, 3713, 3714, 4231, 4441, 4715, 4716. C. Electives (3 hours) Architecture, Interior Design, or open electives complete the 87 semester hours of course work. See advisor for details. D. Architecture Honors The Department of Architecture Honors Program provides an opportunity for selected Architecture and Interior Design students to enrich their learning experience through honors courses, independent study, a senior thesis, and extracurricular learning experiences. The Honors Program requires a minimum of 15 semester hours of honors work in courses within the Department of Architecture. Students who complete the appropriate degree program with a 3.25 cumulative grade point average will earn a degree that includes the distinction "Honors in Architecture." Moreover, the diploma and record at the University of Memphis will reflect this accomplishment. Please contact the Department of Architecture honors coordinator for more detailed information. Typical 4-Year Architecture Sequence Freshman Year ARCH 1112 3 ARCH 1111 3 ARCH 1120 3 ARCH 1113 3 HIST 1110 3 ARCH 1211 3 ANTH 1200 3 HIST 1120 3 ENGL 1010 3 ENGL 1020 3 SOCI 1010 3 MATH* 3-4 Semester Totals 18 hrs 18-19 hrs Sophomore Year ARCH 2212 3 ARCH 2412 3 ARCH 2411 3 ARCH 2612 3 ARCH 2611 3 ARCH 2712 5 ARCH 2711 5 ENGL 2201 or 2202 3 COMM 2381 3 PHYS 2010/2011 4 Semester Totals 17 hrs 18 hrs Junior Year ARCH 3221 3 ARCH 3222 3 ARCH 3321 3 ARCH 3322 3 ARCH 3421 3 ARCH 3714 5 ARCH 3613 3 ARTH 2010 3 ARCH 3713 5 Semester Totals 17 hrs 14 hrs Senior Year ARCH 4231 3 ARCH 4716 5 ARCH 4441 3 ARCH elective 3 ARCH 4715 5 ESCI** 4 ARTH 2020 3 Semester Totals 14 hrs 12 hrs Total Hours: 128 Total Hours Required for Graduation: 128 *Must satisfy University General Education Program Requirement NOTES: Students may take MATH 1730 or MATH 1830. See Architecture Academic Advisor. **In addition to PHYS 2010/2011, students may take ESCI 1010, 1020, 1040 with appropriate lab to satisfy Natural Science requirement. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .