#https://elearn.memphis.edu/shared/Documentation/10.3/Instructor/Instructor_documentation_en_13-11-19/documentation.desire2learn.com/en//taxonomy/term/2.html
Instructor | Desire2Learn Resource Center Skip to main content Main menu Home Accessibility Capture ePortfolio Ideas Library Insights Integrations Learning Environment Learning Repository Desire2Learn Resource Center You are here Home Instructor Solution compatibility Is my current Desire2Learn Learning Environment version compatible with the solution? To find this out, please refer to the description of the solution for more information about the system requirements for that solution. The solution may only be compatible with the latest version of Desire2Learn Learning Environment, and may not be available for your version. Language English Read more about Solution compatibility Logging in Why do I need to log in? You are required to sign in to your organization's Desire2Learn Learning Environment for Solution Showcase to confirm that you have the proper permissions to install a solution within that environment. Why am I repeatedly asked to log in to Learning Environment when installing a solution? The repeated requests to log in may be caused by cookie restrictions within your browser. You can fix this issue by enabling cookies for your browser. Language English Read more about Logging in Obtaining and installing solutions Can I purchase solutions directly from the Solution Showcase? What does "Install with Desire2Learn" mean? Why does my solution require an LTI key? Once Solution Showcase has finished the install process what do I do next? Language English Read more about Obtaining and installing solutions Introduction to Solution Showcase What is Solution Showcase Who are Desire2Learn Partners? How do solutions in the Solution Showcase integrate with Desire2Learn products? Why do some solution listings give the option to find "More Information" while others give the option to "Contact Desire2Learn"? Language English Read more about Introduction to Solution Showcase Solution Showcase FAQs Language English Read more about Solution Showcase FAQs Solution Showcase Desire2Learn Solution Showcase is a gateway to solution that can enhance the learning experience with Desire2Learn Learning Suite. Search and browse products and tools that integrate with the Desire2Learn Learning Suite to fulfill your organization's unique learning needs and preferences. Solution Showcase currently features integrated solutions from Desire2Learn Partners. Language English Read more about Solution Showcase Changing calculation options The Calculation Options page lets you set or change the type of grading system you use to calculate users’ grades, whether you want to release the calculated final grade or an adjusted final grade, and how you want to calculate ungraded items. Language English Read more about Changing calculation options Changing org unit display options The Org Unit Display Options page lets you set what information to display to all course users. Language English Read more about Changing org unit display options Changing personal display options The Personal Display Options page lets you set what information you want to display in your grade book. Setting these options helps you set up a grade book that has the information you need and is easy to navigate and read. Access personal display options Click Settings in the Grades tool. Language English Read more about Changing personal display options Changing Grades settings and display options Language English Read more about Changing Grades settings and display options Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last »     Copyright © 1999-2013 Desire2Learn Incorporated. All rights reserved.