#http://www.memphis.edu/cares/hints.php
Helpful Hints for Academic Success - CARES - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services (CARES) About Academic Status Fresh Start Orientation Early Intervention Staff Home CARES Helpful Hints for Academic Success Helpful Hints for Academic Success The University of Memphis and the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services (CARES) want to see you succeed in reaching your educational goals. The following suggestions and resources could be the boost you need to get there: Use your advisor. The advisor is an excellent source of information for your academic questions. The advisor will also serve as a referral source if there are barriers in your life outside of academics that impact your ability to succeed. Attend class regularly, and when problems arise that prevent your attendance, consult with your instructor about the possibility of making up missed work. Class attendance can make the difference of a letter grade in a course and sometimes in passing/failing a course. Evaluate your life and responsibilities that it holds. Are there obstacles to your educational experience that adversely affect your ability to be successful in college? Is the number of hours you work interfering with your ability to be successful? Are you possibly taking more hours than you should in an attempt to attain your degree in the shortest amount of time? Are your financial obligations putting pressure on you to work more hours, and therefore, affecting your time and self-management? Is your interest level in your chosen major enough to encourage commitment to earning the degree? Have you considered whether or not you would benefit from academic, career, or psychological counseling and/or testing? Is there a need for assistance from the writing or tutoring centers? Please feel free to contact these offices for assistance: Student Need or Question Guide to Campus Services Help with study habits Help with exam skills Help with writing and reading skills Help with math skills Supplemental instruction Tutoring in selected areas Online tutoring in selected areas Educational Support Program (ESP) Academic Enhancement, Mitchell Hall 207, 901.678.5226 (General Education courses, Developmental Math Courses) Business Learning Center, 256 Fogelman, 901.678.3912 English Learning Center, 225 Patterson, 901.678.2059 Math Learning Center 143 Dunn, 901.678.2704 Science Learning Center 207 Mitchell, 901.678.2704 memphis.edu/esp/onlinetutoring.php Discuss attitude toward school Discuss emotional tensions Discuss family problems Discuss dating and relationships Help selecting a career Help selecting a major Career and Psychological Counseling Center 214 Wilder Tower, 901.678.2068 Individual and group counseling for personal and career issues Career exploration and testing Workshops and Seminars Substance abuse counseling Learning Disorder testing memphis.edu/counseling/ Discuss the qualifications for occupations Discuss job market for college graduates Discuss advantages/disadvantages of occupations Learn about internships Help with your resume Help with interviewing skills Career Services 400 Wilder Tower, 901.678.2239 Professional development seminars Internship assistance On-campus interviewing and recruiting Resume critique services Job Fairs Career and Employer Information memphis.edu/careerservices/ Help in obtaining a loan Help in obtaining a scholarship or grant Questions about how financial aid may be affected if you withdraw from a course Questions about using VA education benefits Financial Aid 103 Wilder Tower, 901.678.4825 Hope Scholarship Federal grants, loans, and work study State grants Guidance for financial forms memphis.edu/financialaid/ Find books and articles for assignments Help with researching Ned R. McWherter Library 3785 Norriswood Avenue JSTOR Request items using interlibrary loan Course Reserves Ask a Librarian memphis.edu/libraries/ Help meeting new friends Get information about student activities and leadership development Join registered student organizations Get information about fraternities and sororities Get information about community service opportunities Have questions about campus policies and procedures Participate in club sports, personal training, or fitness classes Utilize exercise equipment Department of Student Life 359 University Center, 901.678.2187 memphis.edu/studentlife/ Student Leadership and Involvement 211 University Center, 901.678.8679 Judicial and Ethical Programs 359 University Center, 901.678.2298 Campus Recreation Intramural Services 620 Echles St., Memphis, TN 38152, 901.678.2801 memphis.edu/cris/ Get a tour from an experienced student Connect with other new students Answer questions for parents Recruitment and Orientation Services 101 Wilder Tower, 901.678.2169 memphis.edu/admissions Help obtaining classroom, testing, or other disability related accommodations Help in obtaining assistive technology Referral to campus and community resources Help to determine if you have a disability and what to do Disability Resources for Students 110 Wilder Tower, 901.678.2880 memphis.edu/drs/ Discuss curriculum requirements for your major Map out a plan for timely graduation Discuss the qualifications for occupations Help in selecting an academic program Discuss academic difficulties Discuss campus services Academic Advising Academic Counseling Center, 901.678.2062 Arts and Sciences, 901.678.5454 Academic Transition (transfer), 901.678.2783 Athletic Academic Services, 901.678.2714 Communication &amp; Fine Arts, 901.678.2394 Education, Health &amp; Human Sciences, 901.678.5915 Business &amp; Economics, 901.678.2860 Engineering, 901.678.4852 Nursing, 901.678.2003 University College, 901.678.2716 memphis.edu/advising/ Receive treatment for illnesses or injury Receive immunizations Receive education on a variety of health issues Join a campus-wide initiative designed to get healthy Student Health Services 200 Hudson Health Center, 901.678.2287 memphis.edu/health/ Register your vehicle Obtain a parking permit Obtain a copy of parking rules Parking Services 120 Zach Curlin Parking Garage, 901.678.2212 memphis.edu/parking/ Report an emergency, a crime, or an accident Courtesy escort across campus when there are safety concerns Police Services 100 Zach Curlin Parking Garage, 901.678.4357 memphis.edu/police/ Pay parking tickets, fines, and your tuition and fees Get questions answered about payments owed and financial holds on your account Bursar's Office 115 Wilder Tower, 901.678.5579 memphis.edu/bursar/ Interact with other first generation college students Receive specialized support for first generation, low income, and students with disabilities Receive counseling, tutoring, and a positive mentor/role model Attend informative workshops and cultural activities Receive assistance completing FAFSA and seeking alternative means of financing your education Student Success Programs (SSP) Mitchell 405, 901.678.2351 Did neither of your custodial parents graduate from a four year college? If you answered yes, then you are a first generation college student. memphis.edu/ssp/ Get questions answered about academic status, GPA requirements, or academic holds Discuss academic warning, academic probation, or academic suspension Discuss the early intervention alert that you received in your e-mail Learn more about ACAD 1100: Academic Strategies and ACAD 2200: Student Success Seminar Get information about Fresh Connections Learning Communities Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services (CARES) Wilder Tower 500, 901.678.2393 memphis.edu/cares/ Helpful Hints for Academic Success Resources that may help you obtain academic success. ACAD 1100 Everything new students need to know to be successful. Fresh Connections Learn more about Fresh Connections! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/16/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .