#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/engr/eece.php
EECE Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning EECE Courses ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING (EECE) NOTE: Students taking Engineering courses will be charged an additional $25 per credit hour. In addition to the courses below, the department may offer the following Special Topics courses: EECE 6900-09. Special Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. EECE 7900-10–8900-10. Special Topics in Electrical Engineering. (1-3). Topics are varied and announced in online class listings. EECE 6202 - Electricl Power Systems (3) Investigation of problems associated with the transmission of electrical energy; load-flow studies, and fault analysis by use of symmetrical components. EECE 6204 - Power Distribution Sys (3) Distribution of power from transmission systems to users: primary and secondary feeders; voltage regulation; underground, overhead and network design; lightning and protective device coordination. EECE 6213 - Antenna Theory/Design (3) Theory of operation and design of antennas; determination of antenna radiation characteristics; introduction to antenna array theory. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EECE 6214 - Em Fields Laboratory (1) Laboratory techniques associated with frequencies above 100 MHz. COREQUISITE: EECE 6215 or permission of instructor. EECE 6215 - Applied Em Fields (3) Steady state and transient solutions of transmission line equations; plane waves; antennas in telecommunications. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EECE 6221 - Electronics III (4) Applications of analog and digital electronic circuits; special purpose circuits and devices. Three lecture, three laboratory hours per week. EECE 6222 - Digital Logic/Comp Dsgn (3) Applications of digital system design using MSI, LSI, and VLSI circuits; design of arithmetic logic units, multiple input controllers, and practical interfacing techniques. EECE 6230 - Data Communicatn System (3) Data communications in information and computing systems; analog and digital means of transmitting and controlling information; organization and requirements of data communication systems, including modulation and demodulation, multiplexing, switching, error detection and correction. EECE 6231 - Communication Theory (3) Frequency and time domain; modulation, random signal theory; autocorrelation; noise, communication systems. EECE 6232 - Discrete Signal Process (3) Introduction to discrete-time signal analysis; discrete system concepts, discrete-time Fourier analysis, sampling of continuous-time signals, z-transform, and transform analysis of discrete systems; structures for discrete-time systems and discrete filter design techniques. EECE 6235 - Probabilistic Sys Anlys (3) Probability and statistics applied to electrical and computer engineering problems; probability and random variables; statistics and techniques for estimating them; techniques for characterization of signals using autocorrelation, cross-correlation and power spectra; determination of effects of discrete and analog filters on random signals, Bayesian detection and estimation; Markov random processes. EECE 6241 - Solid State Physcl Elct (3) Quantum concepts; statistics; crystal structure; conduction processes in solids; p-n junctions and devices; field effect devices; charge transfer devices. EECE 6242 - Electro-Optics (3) Classical optics including Gaussian optics, Newtonian optics, and vergence theory; optical design with aberration concepts, F-numbers, pupils and stops; radiometry with respect to flux transfer calculations; light sources and detectors. EECE 6243 - Linear Optical Systems (3) Review of Fourier techniques for analysis and design of linear systems, extension to 2-d methods; 2-d transforms applied to linear optical systems and data processing. EECE 6251 - Control System Engr (3) General equations of physical linear systems and their transfer functions; transient analysis and stability of control systems; Bode plots, Nichols plot, Routh-Hurwitz criterion, root locus method, introduction to compensation techniques and systems in state space. EECE 6252 - Digital Control Systems (3) Problems involved with and analysis techniques applicable to digital control systems. Requires a prior knowledge of Laplace transforms. Basic knowledge of feedback control theory desirable. EECE 6253 - Control Systems Lab (1) Investigation of fundamental properties associated with analysis of control systems, compensating networks, analog and digital computer simulations. COREQUISITE: EECE 6251 or 6252. EECE 6254 - Digital Control Sys Lab (1) Fundamental properties associated with digital control systems engineering; laboratory procedures in analysis of digital control systems, compensating networks, digital computer simulations and PLCs. CORREQUISITES: EECE 6252. EECE 6272 - Engineering Software (3) Procedural and object-oriented programming techniques using C and C++. Introduction to Unix. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EECE 6273 - Database Engineering (3) Logical database design emphasizing entity-relationship, relational, object-oriented, and logic data models; design theory for relational databases, relational query languages, and introduction to integration of database and knowledge-base systems for engineering applications; emerging trends in database machine design and implementation. EECE 6275 - Network Programming (3) Introduction to engineering of computer networks, network hardware, and network software; design of software systems for network applications. EECE 6276 - Adv Network Programming (3) Advanced methods for engineering software systems for network applications; topics include implementations of distributed object models, remote database connectivity, and reusable software components. PREREQUISITES: EECE 6275 or permission of instructor. EECE 6277 - Dsp Microprocessors (4) Architecture and instruction set of fixed-point and floating-point devices; hardware interfacing, host communications, real-time signal generation, filtering, and code development using assembly language and C. EECE 6278 - Computer Organization (3) Organization and structure of CPU, memory, operating system, I/O system organization and implementation issues; hardware and software integration and co-design. EECE 6710 - Computer Architecture (3) Architecture and design of computers, performance measure, instruction sets, datapaths, I/O systems, and memory hierarchies. PREREQUISITE: EECE 6278. EECE 6711 - Fault Tolerant Comp Des (3) Evaluation of computer system design and reliability using reliability block diagrams, fault trees, reliability graphics, queuing networks, error detecting and correcting codes, and Markov models; principles of fault-tolerant hardware and software design. PREREQUISITES: MATH 6635 and EECE 6278. EECE 6712 - Embedded Systems (3) Introduction to hardware and software design of computing systems embedded in electronic devices; programmable processor design; peripherals, memories, interfacing, and hardware/software tradeoffs. Laboratory involves of use of synthesis tools, programmable logic, microcontrollers, and development of working embedded systems. EECE 6720 - Intro Artificial Intelg (3) (Same as COMP 6720.) Fundamentals of programming in LISP; central ideas of artificial intelligence, including heuristic search, problem solving, slot-and-filler structures, and knowledge representation. EECE 6730 - Expert Systems (3) (Same as COMP 6730.). Fundamentals of programming in PROLOG, central ideas of expert system development, including knowledge representation, control structures, tools, knowledge acquisition, and knowledge engineering. EECE 6731 - Data Visualization (3) (Same as COMP 6731). Terminology, methodology, and applications of data visualization; methods for visualizing data from a variety of engineering and scientific fields including both static and time varying data and methods for generating both surface and volume visualizations. PREREQUISITES: Permission of instructor. EECE 6905 - Electrical Power Quality (3) Power quality phenomenon, voltage sags and interruptions, transient overvoltages, long-duration voltage variations, fundamental of harmonics. distributed generation and power quality, power quality benchmarking and monitoring. EECE 7001 - Professional Develpmnt (3) Electrical and computer engineering research methods, development issues and ethics in academia and engineering practice. Students learn how to conduct literature search, write progress reports, publications and prepare and give presentations. EECE 7012 - Fndtns/Software Engr (3) (Same as COMP 7012-8012). Project management; Unified Process; software disciplines (requirements, analysis, design, implementation, testing); Unified Modeling Language; design patterns; mapping designs to code. Students work in teams to develop a significant software system. EECE 7100 - Linear Sys Analysis (3) Systems concepts and mathematical tools including Z-transforms; analysis of systems, both continuous and discrete, in the time domain and frequency domain. EECE 7211 - Adv Elctrmgntc Field (3) Advanced studies in electromagnetic fields, radiation, and propagation of energy. EECE 7214 - Image Processing (3) Theory and applications of digital image processing, sampling, quantization, enhancement and restoration of images; use of segmentation, descriptors, and pattern recognition; architectures for image processing. EECE 7215 - Digital Signal Proc (3) Application of discrete transform theory to spectral analysis, digital filters, random signal analysis. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EECE 7216 - Computer Vision (3) Principles and applications of computer vision, advanced image processing techniques as applied to computer vision, shape analysis, and object recognition. EECE 7217 - Multimedia Info Process (3) Multimedia information retrieval models, advanced processing techniques, multimedia content analysis, pattern mining for information retrieval, query formation, intelligent query processing, and high dimensional data visualization. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EECE 7230 - Solid State Devices (3) Internal function, limitations, and applications of unique components found in modern telecommunication designs; electro-optic devices, detectors, resonators, antenna, and negative resistance components. PREREQUISITE: EECE 7231. EECE 7231 - Communicatn Electronics (3) Analysis and design of small and large signal amplifiers; multistage amplifiers; analysis and design of oscillators; feedback and stability in amplifier design. EECE 7232 - Analog Comm Circ Dsgn (3) Design and applications of analog communication systems; transmitter and receiver technologies. PREREQUISITE: EECE 7231 or permission. EECE 7233 - Power Electronics (3) Power semiconductor switches, rectifiers, phase-controlled rectifiers, and other power control devices; power control applications. EECE 7234 - VLSI Design (3) This course teaches electronic IC design techniques for VLSI systems. Topics include fabrication process, design considerations and methodologies, fundamental structure, design flow, tools and techniques, design analysis and optimization, and stick diagram. Topics also include design rule checking (DRL), layout versus schematic (LVS), design synthesis and chip planning, clock tree and power routing, advanced high-speed and low-power CMOS design, asynchronous and adiabatic logic. EECE 7243 - Fourier Optics (3) Analysis of two-dimensional linear systems, scalar diffraction theory, Fresnel and Fraunhofer diffraction; Fourier transforming properties of lenses, spatial frequency analysis of optical systems, optical information processing and holography. EECE 7245 - Statistical Optics (3) Techniques for describing random processes applied to generation, propagation, imaging, and detection of light; statistical properties of light, coherence, imaging with inhomogeneous media, statistics of photoelectric detection of light. EECE 7251 - Random Signals & Noise (3) Statistical methods for describing and analyzing random signals and noise; auto-correlation, cross-correlation, and spectral density functions; optimal linear filter theory. PREREQUISITE: EECE 6235 or permission of instructor. EECE 7252 - Information Theory (3) Introduction to entropy and channel capacity, group codes, block codes, cyclic codes; application of coding techniques to improve system reliability; error correcting codes. PREREQUISITE: EECE 7251 or permission of instructor. EECE 7253 - Wireless Telecommunictn (3) Principles of wireless telecommunication systems with emphasis on cellular telephony and on wireless data communication; requirements and standards along with physical layer properties and multiple access techniques including spread spectrum techniques (CDMA). EECE 7254 - Modern Telecom (3) Implementation and standards for communications systems; cellular telephony standards and/or wireless data standards utilizing CDMA techniques. EECE 7255 - Digital Communications (3) Source coding, signal representations, optimum receivers for A WGN channels, channel capacity issues, block codes, and convolution codes. EECE 7261 - Arch & Design Dig Comp (3) Advanced logical design of hardware and organization structure of digital computers; architectural properties and control strategies; processor and memory organizations, addressing and interrupt structures, and I/O controllers; hardware and software trade-offs, and speed considerations. EECE 7262 - Logicl Fndtns Artf Intl (3) (Same as COMP 7750-8750)Logical foundations of artificial intelligence, predicate calculus, declarative knowledge, inference, resolution strategies, non-monotonic reasoning, induction, probabilistic logic, belief, state and change, and intelligent-agent architecture. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EECE 7266 - Prolog Proc/Intel Syst (3) The engineering of intelligent systems using the PROLOG language for implementation; advanced PROLOG processing, hardware, and software architecture for PROLOG-based machines. PREREQUISITE: EECE 6720 or 6730 or permission of instructor. EECE 7267 - Artfcl Intel In Lisp (3) Fundamentals of LISP programming, symbolic processing, searching, goal reduction, matching, problems and problem spaces, problem solving methods, and AI applications. EECE 7268 - Obj Oriented Data Engr (3) Design of hardware and software from a perspective of interacting objects that combine data and behavior; engineering data models, analysis and design processes, implementation, large engineering system issues, and reverse engineering; object-oriented database design for CASE, CAD/CAM, and related engineering database environments. EECE 7269 - Machine Learning & Applicatns (3) Data representation; similarity measures, linear and non-linear data projection; discriminate analysis; classifier design; supervised and unsupervised learning; evolutionary computing; and machine learning and applications. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EECE 7273 - Modern Microprocessors (3) Introduction to capabilities of state-of-the-art microprocessors and their supporting components. EECE 7521 - Adv Control Syst Engr (3) Cascade and feedback compensation; analysis and control of nonlinear systems; introduction to optimal techniques. PREREQUISITE: EECE 6251 or permission. EECE 7522 - Stoch/Adapt Cntrl Thry (3) Principles and applications of deterministic and statistical design; random processes in automatic control. EECE 7523 - Thry Optical Cntrol Sys (3) State variable description of systems, maximum principle of Pontryagin, optimization of linear systems with quadratic performance measures, time and field optimal systems. EECE 7524 - Parameter Est & Cntrls (3) Principles of parameter estimation and application to systems engineering. EECE 7720 - Artificial Intelligence (3) (Same as COMP 7720-8720). Central issues of artificial intelligence, including game playing, planning, machine learning, common-sense reasoning, perception and action; implementations in LISP. PREREQUISITE: EECE 6720. EECE 7740 - Neural Networks (3) (Same as COMP 7740-8740). Learning algorithms for multilayer perceptrons, least-mean squares, back-propagation and its variants, cascade-correlation, other supervised learning algorithms; unsupervised methods, including Hebbian, competitive and reinforcement learning; applications to associative memories, combinatorial optimization, component analysis, function approximation, pattern classification; theory of neurodynamics, including equilibrium, stability, and computational power. EECE 7901 - Bioelectronics (3) (BIOM 7901-8901) This course teaches bioelectronic sensors, amplifiers and signal conditioning techniques. Specific topics include microfabricated sensors and actuators, hard and soft fabrication techniques, bulk and surface micromachining, self-assembled monolayer, bioMEMS, microfluids, lab-on-a-chip, microarrays, carbon nanotubes, grapheme, neural implants, flexible and epidermal electronics, wireless telemetry, biorobotics and drug delivery systems. Topics will cover invasive, minimally invasive, body-worn, wearable, and remote electronic systems. EECE 7902 - Power System Stability/Control (3) This course is structured to review mathematical preliminaries, provide necessary foundation in scientific computing techniques at the graduate level, and to prepare for advanced computing work in scientific, research and engineering problems. Early stage graduate students will gain experience in programming scientific computing techniques in MATLAB. PREREQUISITE: graduate standing or consent of the instructor. EECE 7903 - Physically Based Animation (3) Modeling of transport phenomena from governing physical principles (e.g. fluid flow) and numerical analysis of the underlying differential equations have a broad spectrum of application ranging from biomedicine, engineering design and simulation, aerodynamics, weather forecasting to animated motion pictures. Topics covered will emphasize on a collective learning of physical phenomena and theoretical models that govern fluid flow, mathematical formulation, numerical analysis and visualization of fluid flow. Particular emphasis will be on mathematical development of finite-element methods for incompressible Navier-Stokes equations governing fluid flow in a non-moving domain. PREREQUISITE: graduate standing or consent of the instructor. EECE 7906 - Advanced Pattern Recognition (3) Principle component analysis, Independent component analysis, linear discriminant analysis, decision theory, density estimation, dimensionality reduction, statistical classification and clustering, manifold learning, statistical learning theory, ensemble learning, classification and regression trees, random forest, random survival forests, identifying feature relevance using a random forest, ensemble selection from libraries of models, extremely randomized trees, conditional variable importance for random forests, bagging and boosting. PREREQUISITES: basic knowledge of Linear Algebra, Probability and Statistics, and experience in a high level programming language (C/C++/MATLAB etc.) is required. EECE 7991 - Projects I (1-3) Independent investigation of a problem selected in consultation with instructor; report required. Repeatable by permission. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. EECE 7992 - Projects II (1-3) Independent investigation of a problem selected in consultation with instructor; report required. Repeatable by permission. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. EECE 7993 - Project & Report (3) Independent study for students who select the non-thesis option in the Masters program. Students demonstrate ability to pursue, complete, and report on a research project related to Electrical and Computer Engineering. Written and oral report prepared for acceptance by faculty committee, Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. EECE 7996 - Thesis (1-12) Master?s thesis. Only six hours are applicable to the degree. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. EECE 8001 - Professional Develpmnt (3) Electrical and computer engineering research methods, development issues and ethics in academia and engineering practice. Students learn how to conduct literature search, write progress reports, publications and prepare and give presentations. EECE 8012 - Fndtns/Software Engr (3) (Same as COMP 7012-8012). Project management; Unified Process; software disciplines (requirements, analysis, design, implementation, testing); Unified Modeling Language; design patterns; mapping designs to code. Students work in teams to develop a significant software system. EECE 8100 - Linear Sys Analysis (3) Systems concepts and mathematical tools including Z-transforms; analysis of systems, both continuous and discrete, in the time domain and frequency domain. EECE 8211 - Adv Electrmgntc Field (3) Advanced studies in electromagnetic fields, radiation, and propagation of energy. EECE 8214 - Image Processing (3) Theory and applications of digital image processing, sampling, quantization, enhancement and restoration of images; use of segmentation, descriptors, and pattern recognition; architectures for image processing. EECE 8215 - Digital Signal Proc (3) Application of discrete transform theory to spectral analysis, digital filters, random signal analysis. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EECE 8216 - Computer Vision (3) Principles and applications of computer vision, advanced image processing techniques as applied to computer vision, shape analysis, and object recognition. EECE 8217 - Multimedia Info Process (3) Multimedia information retrieval models, advanced processing techniques, multimedia content analysis, pattern mining for information retrieval, query formation, intelligent query processing, and high dimensional data visualization. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EECE 8230 - Solid State Devices (3) Internal function, limitations, and applications of unique components found in modern telecommunication designs; electro-optic devices, detectors, resonators, antenna, and negative resistance components. PREREQUISITE: EECE 7231. EECE 8231 - Communicatn Electronics (3) Analysis and design of small and large signal amplifiers; multistage amplifiers; analysis and design of oscillators; feedback and stability in amplifier design. EECE 8232 - Analog Comm Circ Dsgn (3) Design and applications of analog communication systems; transmitter and receiver technologies. PREREQUISITE: EECE 7231 or permission. EECE 8233 - Power Electronics (3) Power semiconductor switches, rectifiers, phase-controlled rectifiers, and other power control devices; power control applications. EECE 8234 - VLSI Design (3) This course teaches electronic IC design techniques for VLSI systems. Topics include fabrication process, design considerations and methodologies, fundamental structure, design flow, tools and techniques, design analysis and optimization, and stick diagram. Topics also include design rule checking (DRL), layout versus schematic (LVS), design synthesis and chip planning, clock tree and power routing, advanced high-speed and low-power CMOS design, asynchronous and adiabatic logic. EECE 8243 - Fourier Optics (3) Analysis of two-dimensional linear systems, scalar diffraction theory, Fresnel and Fraunhofer diffraction; Fourier transforming properties of lenses, spatial frequency analysis of optical systems, optical information processing and holography. EECE 8245 - Statistical Optics (3) Techniques for describing random processes applied to generation, propagation, imaging, and detection of light; statistical properties of light, coherence, imaging with inhomogeneous media, statistics of photoelectric detection of light. EECE 8251 - Random Signals & Noise (3) Statistical methods for describing and analyzing random signals and noise; auto-correlation, cross-correlation, and spectral density functions; optimal linear filter theory. PREREQUISITE: EECE 6235 or permission of instructor. EECE 8252 - Information Theory (3) Introduction to entropy and channel capacity, group codes, block codes, cyclic codes; application of coding techniques to improve system reliability; error correcting codes. PREREQUISITE: EECE 7251 or permission of instructor. EECE 8253 - Wireless Telecommunictn (3) Principles of wireless telecommunication systems with emphasis on cellular telephony and on wireless data communication; requirements and standards along with physical layer properties and multiple access techniques including spread spectrum techniques (CDMA). EECE 8254 - Modern Telecom (3) Implementation and standards for communications systems; cellular telephony standards and/or wireless data standards utilizing CDMA techniques. EECE 8255 - Digital Communications (3) Source coding, signal representations, optimum receivers for A WGN channels, channel capacity issues, block codes, and convolution codes. EECE 8261 - Arch & Design Dig Comp (3) Advanced logical design of hardware and organization structure of digital computers; architectural properties and control strategies; processor and memory organizations, addressing and interrupt structures, and I/O controllers; hardware and software trade-offs, and speed considerations. EECE 8262 - Logicl Fndtns Artf Intl (3) (Same as COMP 7750-8750)Logical foundations of artificial intelligence, predicate calculus, declarative knowledge, inference, resolution strategies, non-monotonic reasoning, induction, probabilistic logic, belief, state and change, and intelligent-agent architecture. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EECE 8266 - Prolog Proc/Intel Syst (3) The engineering of intelligent systems using the PROLOG language for implementation; advanced PROLOG processing, hardware, and software architecture for PROLOG-based machines. PREREQUISITE: EECE 6720 or 6730 or permission of instructor. EECE 8267 - Artfcl Intel In Lisp (3) Fundamentals of LISP programming, symbolic processing, searching, goal reduction, matching, problems and problem spaces, problem solving methods, and AI applications. EECE 8268 - Obj Oriented Data Engr (3) Design of hardware and software from a perspective of interacting objects that combine data and behavior; engineering data models, analysis and design processes, implementation, large engineering system issues, and reverse engineering; object-oriented database design for CASE, CAD/CAM, and related engineering database environments. EECE 8269 - Machine Learning & Applicatns (3) Data representation; similarity measures, linear and non-linear data projection; discriminate analysis; classifier design; supervised and unsupervised learning; evolutionary computing; and machine learning and applications. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. EECE 8273 - Modern Microprocessors (3) Introduction to capabilities of state-of-the-art microprocessors and their supporting components. EECE 8521 - Adv Control Syst Engr (3) Cascade and feedback compensation; analysis and control of nonlinear systems; introduction to optimal techniques. PREREQUISITE: EECE 6251 or permission. EECE 8522 - Stoch/Adapt Cntrl Thry (3) Principles and applications of deterministic and statistical design; random processes in automatic control. EECE 8523 - Thry Optical Cntrol Sys (3) State variable description of systems, maximum principle of Pontryagin, optimization of linear systems with quadratic performance measures, time and field optimal systems. EECE 8524 - Parameter Est & Cntrls (3) Principles of parameter estimation and application to systems engineering. EECE 8720 - Artificial Intelligence (3) (Same as COMP 7720-8720). Central issues of artificial intelligence, including game playing, planning, machine learning, common-sense reasoning, perception and action; implementations in LISP. PREREQUISITE: EECE 6720. EECE 8740 - Neural Networks (3) (Same as COMP 7740-8740). Learning algorithms for multilayer perceptrons, least-mean squares, back-propagation and its variants, cascade-correlation, other supervised learning algorithms; unsupervised methods, including Hebbian, competitive and reinforcement learning; applications to associative memories, combinatorial optimization, component analysis, function approximation, pattern classification; theory of neurodynamics, including equilibrium, stability, and computational power. EECE 8901 - Bioelectronics (3) (BIOM 7901-8901) This course teaches bioelectronic sensors, amplifiers and signal conditioning techniques. Specific topics include microfabricated sensors and actuators, hard and soft fabrication techniques, bulk and surface micromachining, self-assembled monolayer, bioMEMS, microfluids, lab-on-a-chip, microarrays, carbon nanotubes, grapheme, neural implants, flexible and epidermal electronics, wireless telemetry, biorobotics and drug delivery systems. Topics will cover invasive, minimally invasive, body-worn, wearable, and remote electronic systems. EECE 8902 - Power System Stability/Control (3) This course is structured to review mathematical preliminaries, provide necessary foundation in scientific computing techniques at the graduate level, and to prepare for advanced computing work in scientific, research and engineering problems. Early stage graduate students will gain experience in programming scientific computing techniques in MATLAB. PREREQUISITE: graduate standing or consent of the instructor. EECE 8903 - Physically Based Animation (3) Modeling of transport phenomena from governing physical principles (e.g. fluid flow) and numerical analysis of the underlying differential equations have a broad spectrum of application ranging from biomedicine, engineering design and simulation, aerodynamics, weather forecasting to animated motion pictures. Topics covered will emphasize on a collective learning of physical phenomena and theoretical models that govern fluid flow, mathematical formulation, numerical analysis and visualization of fluid flow. Particular emphasis will be on mathematical development of finite-element methods for incompressible Navier-Stokes equations governing fluid flow in a non-moving domain. PREREQUISITE: graduate standing or consent of the instructor. EECE 8906 - Advanced Pattern Recognition (3) Principle component analysis, Independent component analysis, linear discriminant analysis, decision theory, density estimation, dimensionality reduction, statistical classification and clustering, manifold learning, statistical learning theory, ensemble learning, classification and regression trees, random forest, random survival forests, identifying feature relevance using a random forest, ensemble selection from libraries of models, extremely randomized trees, conditional variable importance for random forests, bagging and boosting. PREREQUISITES: basic knowledge of Linear Algebra, Probability and Statistics, and experience in a high level programming language (C/C++/MATLAB etc.) is required. EECE 8991 - Projects I (1-3) Independent investigation of a problem selected in consultation with instructor; report required. Repeatable by permission. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. EECE 8992 - Projects II (1-3) Independent investigation of a problem selected in consultation with instructor; report required. Repeatable by permission. Grades of A-F, or IP will be given. EECE 9000 - Dissertation (1-12) Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .