#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/bus/fin.php
Finance - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Finance Finance PANKAJ JAIN, PhD Interim Chair Room 402, Fogelman Admin Building 901.678.5930 LESLIE MATHIS, CFA Finance Master's Program Coordinator Room 446, Fogelman Admin Building 901.678.4642 lmathis@memphis.edu MARK A. SUNDERMAN, PhD Real Estate Master's Program Coordinator Room 436, Fogelman Admin Building 901.678.5142 msndrman@memphis.edu THOMAS H. MCINISH, PhD Finance PhD Program Coordinator Room 108F, Fogelman Executive Center 901.678.3006 tmcinish@memphis.edu I. The Department of Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate offers the Master of Science in Business Administration degree with concentrations in Finance and in Real Estate as well as the PhD in Business Administration with a concentration in Finance. NOTE: Every graduate student must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS in Business Administration Program See the beginning of this College section for admission requirements and College Core requirements. A. Program Requirements Prerequisite of MATH 1830 or its equivalent. Students with the necessary pre-qualifications may have the prerequisite waived by the program coordinator. Each candidate must complete a minimum of 33 semester hours of approved graduate courses. The 33 graduate credits include a minimum of 21 hours in the concentration (24 if a thesis is written; students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write). Business Administration Core: FIR 7155, Global Financial Mgmt MIS 7650, Info Syst Global Enterprise Finance Concentration: Four required courses (12 semester hours) and five elective courses (15 semester hours) approved by the program coordinator. Four required courses (12 semester hours) ACCT 7080, Financial and Managerial Accounting for Managers FIR 7410, Investment Theory and Portfolio Management, FIR 7810, Advanced Financial Management, and FIR 7840, Quantitative Applications for Finance Five electives courses (15 semester hours) Three elective courses (9 semester hours) must come from List A. The other two elective courses (6 semester hours) may come from List A, List B, or related courses approved by the program coordinator. List A: FIR 7170, Multinational Corporate Finance FIR 7171, International Financial Markets FIR 7173, Financial Analysis and Certifications FIR 7302, Real Estate Development and Sustainability FIR 7350, Real Estate Finance and Investment Analysis FIR 7648, Entrepreneurial Finance FIR 7721, Financial Derivatives List B: FIR 6310, Real Estate Law FIR 6331, Stock Portfolio Management FIR 6340, Real Estate Appraisal FIR 6610, Cases in Managerial Finance FIR 6720, Management of Financial Institutions FIR6721, Financial Derivative Markets FIR 6770, Security Analysis/Port Mgmt FIR 6810, Property and Liability Insurance FIR 6820, Life and Health Insurance FIR 7310, Sustainable Real Estate FIR 7911, Internship in Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate ACCT 7140, Financial Statement Analysis ECON 7100, Economics for the Global Executive ECON 7300, Economic Theory and Decisions ECON 7310, Advanced Microeconomics ECON 7313, Economics of Risk and Uncertainty Real Estate Concentration: A real estate concentration requires you to complete 18 hours in real estate coursework, including one elective, plus 9 hours in a related field. Course substitutions may be permitted with the approval of your concentration advisor. Required (15 hours): FIR 7301, Contemporary Real Estate Theory and Practice FIR 7302, Real Estate Development and Sustainability FIR 7350, Real Estate Finance and Investment Analysis FIR 7910, Problems in Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate FIR 7310, Sustainable Real Estate Electives (3 hours), choose one from: FIR 6310, Real Estate Law FIR 6340, Real Estate Appraisal FIR 7911, Internship in Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate PLAN 6515, Geographic Information Science Multi-Discipline: In addition to 18 hours in real estate, the real estate concentration requires 9 hours be completed in fields including the areas of finance, architecture, civil engineering, urban ecology, and city &amp; regional planning. Possible courses from these areas include: Finance FIR 7173, Financial Analysis/Certification FIR 7170, International Financial Management FIR 7171, International Financial Markets FIR 7410, Investment Theory and Portfolio Management FIR 7648, Entrepreneurial Finance FIR 7710, Seminar in Investment Theory FIR 7721, Financial Derivatives FIR 7810, Advanced Financial Management FIR 7840, Quantitative Applications for Finance Architecture ARCH 6023, Urban Design Seminar ARCH 6221, Determinants of Modern Design ARCH 6811, Parameters in Architecture Studio (3-6) ARCH 7211, Contemporary Architectural Theory Other Possible Architecture Electives: ARCH 6021, Architecture Independent Study (1-3) ARCH 6510-6519, Special Topics (1-3) ARCH 7021, Architecture Independent Study (1-3) Civil Engineering: CIVL 6162, Traffic Engineering CIVL 7991/8991, Projects Biology BIOL 6055, Ecological and Environmental Issues BIOL 6730, Urban-Wildlife Ecology and Management BIOL 7020/8020, Current Topics in Ecology (1-3) BIOL 7360/8360, Plant and Environment BIOL 7370/8370, Current Topics in Wetland Ecology and Management BIOL 7751/8751, Conservation Biology (4) Earth Sciences ESCI 6201, Urbanization and the Environment ESCI 6431, Urban Geography City and Regional Planning PLAN 6502, Computer Cartography PLAN 6515, Geographic Information Science PLAN 7000, Introduction to Planning PLAN 7002, City Planning Principles and Theory PLAN 7004, Land Use Controls PLAN 7006, Comprehensive Planning Studio PLAN 7007, Special Projects Studio PLAN 7008, Site Planning PLAN 7011, Financing Community Development PLAN 7012, Methodology and Technique PLAN 7101, Regional Planning PLAN 7201, Community Facilities Planning PLAN 7202, Land Use Planning PLAN 7204, Urban Revitalization Planning Candidates must pass a written or oral comprehensive examination. III. PhD Program The required course work for the Ph.D. concentration in Finance includes corporate finance, investments, and market micro-structure theory and applications. The student body is comprised of promising scholars from across the U.S. and around the world. Doctoral students are involved in all phases of faculty research, including co-authorship of research papers and presentations at professional meetings. The research tools and opportunities available to our doctoral students are impressive. Students use financial databases such as CRSP and COMPUSTAT and data on all trades and quotes, time to the second or even millisecond. Research interests of the doctoral faculty in Finance include: capital market theory, futures prices, capital budgeting and dividend policy, interest rates, international stock market returns, corporate debt policy, and domestic versus multinational risk and return. The faculty has a special focus on market microstructure. The doctoral finance faculty have published in leading scholarly journals, including: Journal of Finance, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Review of Economics and Statistics, Journal of Financial Markets, Journal of Financial Research, Financial Review, Journal of Futures Markets, Journal of Banking and Finance, Journal of Business Finance and Accounting, Journal of Portfolio Management, Financial Analysts Journal, Journal of Political Economy, and Management Science. The program is quantitative and the course work includes a number of courses in economics such as microeconomics and econometrics. For admission, prerequisites, and program information, see the college website at: . Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .