#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/econ/2015FECON2010M50.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus ECON - 201 0 - M50 and M51 Principles of Ma croeconomics Fall 2015 3 C redit Hours Instructor: Professor Michael J. Gootzeit Phone : (901) 678 - 4625 E - mail: mgoot@memphis.edu Website: - management website, ecourseware, to stay in contact with you and to report your grades. To access it , just go to elearn@memphis.edu and click the link for ECON 20 1 0 . The syllabus can also be found at this website. Office: Room 400, Fogelman College of Business & Economics Office Hours: Monday, 9 10 am Course Overview Operation of the market economy at the individual and firm level; supply and demand analysis, consumer behavior, behavior of firms in both competitive and monopoly environments, income distribution theory, and effects of government intervention i n the market economy. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no prerequisite courses per se. However, we will be using basic tools of graphs and a very little bit of algebra. Required Texts : The required text is Robert E. Hall and Marc Lieberman, Mi croeconomics: Principles & Applications , 6 th edition. South - Western Publishing , 2013. Course Objectives : 1. The student should be able to define scarcity, opportunity costs, demonstrate how they affect economic decisions, and identify those costs in a given economic decision. 2. The student should be able to understand and describe the concepts and measurement of gross domestic product, unemployment, and inflation , and how these variables correspond to the business cycle . 3. The student should be able to underst and and describe the difference between short - run business cycles and long - run economic growth and the factors that contribute to each. 4. The student should be able to understand and describe how Aggregate Demand and Aggregate Supply determine macroeconomic equilibrium price and output in the short run and the long run. 5. The student should be able to understand and describe the following for both fiscal policy and monetary policy: concepts, tools, implementation, limitations , relative advantages and disadva ntages, and how each affects aggregate economic activity. 6. The student should be able to understand and describe the arguments pro and con for a policy of laissez - faire versus government activism in the management of macroeconomic policies. 7. The student sh ould be able to understand and describe the concepts of c omparative a dvantage, the balance of payments and its components, and the determinants of exchange rates. Fogelman College: Learning Outcomes for Your Degree These are the AACSB learning outcomes for the BBA: Course Methodology The course will be taught on - site. Grading and Evaluation Criteria There will be 8 reviews (20 questions), 4 exams (50 questions), homework assignments using Aplia software for about 13 of the 17 chaptes in the text, about 2 discussion questions for each of the 8 study units of the class. Each of these 4 parts will be weighted in calculating your semester grade. The 4 exams will be timed at 100 minutes , the 8 reviews at 60 minutes. Grade weights : 8 Revi ews 25 % of grade 4 Exams 40 % of grade 8 Discussions 15 % of grade From Aplia.com: Homework 25% of grade Final Course Grades The grading scale is as follows: A: 90 - 100% B: 80 - 90% C: 70 - 80% D: 60 - 70% Course Topics & Reading Assignments This class uses required online HW (Aplia), which will count 25% of your final grade. There is a fee of $120 for the required online text. Purchasing a hard copy book is optional. You you have financial aid pending. The text is Hall and Lieberman, Principles of Macroeconomics, 6 th ed, Cengage pub. Please see more details on your class elearn site. You register for Aplia HW on your home page. Go to content, table of contents, click o n "Aplia." You need to do this ASAP. Deadlines are important. You cannot pass this class if you miss deadlines. There are no makeups. If you miss anything, you will lose credit. So, you must be aware of all deadlines. Topics: Ch 1: What is Economics Ch 2: Scarcity , Choice Ch 3: Supply and Demand Ch 4: Working with Supply and Demand Ch 5: What Macroeconomics Tries to Explain Ch6: Production, Income and Employment Ch 7: The Price Level and Inflation Ch 8: The Classical Long Run Model Ch 10: Economic Fluctuations Ch 11: The Short Run Macro Model Ch 13: Money, Banks and the Federal Reserve Ch 14: Money Market and Monetary Policy Ch 15: Aggregate Demand and Aggregate Supply Ch 16: Inflation and Monetary Policy Final Exam Schedule There will be no final exam. Course Policies E - MAIL: Please contact me at mgoot@memphis.edu . Adding/Dropping : The drop date for the fall semester is Oct 16 . Academic Integrity: Expectations for academic integrity and student conduct are described in detail on the website of the Office of Student Judicial and Ethical Affairs . Please take a look, in particular, at the section these guidelines and to conduct themselves accordingly. Any incidents of academic dishonesty (i.e. cheating on a Late Assignments: There are no late assignments. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance