#http://www.memphis.edu/psychology/centers/psc.php
PSC - Department of Psychology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Psychology Undergraduate Graduate People Centers Research Resources Centers Centers Center for Applied Psychological Research Gambling Clinic Psychological Services Center Institute for Intelligence Systems Home Department of Psychology Centers PSC The Psychological Services Center Services | Fees For Services | Location and Hours | RRB Information Department of Psychology The University of Memphis 400 Innovation Drive Memphis, TN 38152-6400 901.678.2147 Room 126, Psychology Building At the Psychological Services Center, general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services are provided to the individuals and families of the greater Memphis metropolitan area. The Center’s mission is threefold: train future psychologists, provide affordable help to those in need of psychological service, and promote research to support the empirical bases of psychology practice. Students in the Clinical and School Psychology Doctoral programs, as well as those in the specialist program in School Psychology, are the professional staff of the Center. Our training faculty, which includes our Psychology faculty and adjunct faculty chosen for their professional expertise, closely supervise the services provided by these advanced graduate students. The direct result of this training is affordable psychological services for the citizens of Memphis and the surrounding communities. The Center is one of the only low-cost psychology clinics in the city. Every year hundreds of individuals and families who could not otherwise afford psychological assistance receive quality services at reduced fee. Finally, the Center is dedicated to applied research. All clinical grants and research projects where clinical services are delivered use the Center as the service delivery setting. Thus, the Center’s efforts are closely associated with the Psychology Department’s focus on applied psychological research and the empirical-basis of psychology practice. James P. Whelan, Ph.D. Counseling Services Adult Services Individual counseling is provided for clients who are experiencing interpersonal difficulties at home or at work. Problems such as depression, anxiety, phobias, sleep disturbances, adjustment problems, and stress-related difficulties are commonly treated. The center also has a state-of-the-art program on the treatment of problem gambling. Additionally, marital/couples' therapy is provided for couples who are experiencing difficulties related to conflict resolution, spouse abuse, sexual dysfunctions, or other problems requiring joint intervention. Child Services Services are provided for children experiencing difficulties at school or at home. Services include individual counseling, consultation, and other interventions for use in the school and/or home. Center staff who specialize in dealing with childhood problems work closely with children, their parents or guardians, and school personnel in the management of the child's difficulties. Family Services Counseling is provided for problems requiring family interventions. Therapists trained in family therapy provide counseling for problems resulting from interpersonal conflicts, blended families' issues, and adjustment to divorce. Health Psychology Individual and group counseling is provided to aid clients in such activities as smoking cessation, weight loss, pain and headache management, adjustment to chronic illness and traumatic loss, and stress reduction. Therapists trained in medical psychology and cognitive-behavioral interventions work with individuals experiencing problems in such areas to promote a more healthy lifestyle. Specialty Services Psychoeducational Evaluation Services include the evaluation of intelligence, achievement, personality, psychomotor, and other skills and abilities in children, adolescents, and adults. The staff work closely with school personnel in the evaluation of children suspected of being eligible for special education (e.g. children with learning disabilities, mental retardation, giftedness, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, behavioral disorders). In conjunction with The University of Memphis Office for Students with Disabilities, the Center provides evaluation and consultation for students experiencing academic problems in college. Elimination Disorders Screening and treatment are provided for children with problems of enuresis or encopresis. The emphasis of the program is on training parents to deal with the frustrations of soiling or bedwetting, and to implement behavioral treatment procedures for the child in the home. For further information or to schedule an appointment to talk with one of our therapists, please call The Psychological Services Center at 901.678.2147. Fees for Services Fees for services at The Psychological Services Center are based on the total family income of the client. Students at University of Memphis who are enrolled at least part time are eligible for a special low fee. Additionally, University of Memphis faculty and staff receive a substantial discount for all services. Please contact the clinic at 901.678.2147 for more specific information. For further information or to schedule an appointment to talk with one of our therapists, please call The Psychological Services Center at 901.678.2147. Location and Service Hours The Psychological Services Center is open from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Thursday and from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. on Friday. The Clinic generally remains open even when University classes are not in session. Therapists are on duty during operating hours to handle emergency situations. The Psychological Services Center is located on the first floor (Room 126) of the Psychology Building on the University of Memphis campus. This building is located at 400 Innovation Drive, one Block south of Central Avenue. Parking is available at the parking garage on Innovation Drive, located directly next to the Psychology Building or in the parking lot next to the Psychology Building off of Veterans Street. RRB Information RRB Procedures (DOC) RRB Application (PDF) RRB Review Guidelines (PDF) Centers Centers Center for Applied Psychological Research Gambling Clinic Psychological Services Center Institute for Intelligence Systems Psychology Graduate Programs Application Click on link to Apply to the Department of Psychology Graduate Program The Psychological Services Center PSC provides general outpatient psychotherapeutic and psychological assessment services to individuals and families Teaching Take-Out This website is a resource for busy teachers who want to enrich their classes while preserving the time they need for research and other important professional activities. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .