#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/news/archive_flash/2015sept/02_pawan_jain.php
Former FCBE Ph.D. Student Awarded Prize for Research on REIT Volatility and Liquidity - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Home FCBE News Former FCBE Ph.D. Student Awarded Prize for Research on REIT Volatility and Liquidity Former FCBE Ph.D. Student Awarded Prize for Research on REIT Volatility and Liquidity Former Fogelman College Ph.D. student, Dr. Pawan Jain, was recently awarded the 2015 NAREIT/AREUEA Real Estate Research Conference Distinguished Research Prize by NAREIT and the American Real Estate and Urban Economics Association (AREUEA). Dr. Pawan Jain, former Fogelman College Ph.D. student, named the winner of the NAREIT/AREUEA Distinguished Research Award. Dr. Jain's paper, "J-REIT Market Quality: Impact of High Frequency Trading and the Financial Crisis," used data from the Japanese REIT market. However, his findings have "clear implications for other REIT markets, including in the U.S.," according to Brad Case, NAREIT's senior vice president for research and industry information. Jain's research focused on liquidity and volatility—specifically how they were affected by the financial crisis of 2008 to 2009 and the introduction of a new high-frequency trading (HFT) platform at the beginning of 2010. "While many commentators have expressed fear that high-frequency trading may increase market volatility, Jain finds just the opposite: The introduction of the HFT platform in Japan actually reduced volatility for Japanese REITs by increasing liquidity in the market," Case said. He added that Jain's research produced another interesting result: REITs were less affected than non-REIT companies both by the liquidity crisis and by the introduction of the HFT platform. "That's because REITs are generally more transparent than non-REIT companies and don't withhold information from investors to the extent that non-REITs can, so pricing tends to be more efficient and market crises tend to present less disruption," Case explained. Dr. Jain's J-REIT research complements earlier research that he and two co-authors released in 2013 that showed U.S. REITs tended to be less liquid than comparable non-REIT companies before the liquidity crisis, but have become more liquid than their non-REIT counterparts since the crisis. Dr. Jain received his Ph.D. from the department of Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate at the Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics in 2013. While at FCBE, he taught Managerial Finance (FIR 3410) online and was a graduate assistant for Dr. Mark Sunderman, professor of Finance. Dr. Jain currently has other research endeavors underway with several FCBE faculty members, as well as other current and former Ph.D. students. "Dr. Jain is a major contributor to our Ph.D. program. He works well with faculty as well as other students. We are extremely proud of him and his recent recognitions," said Dr. Sunderman, FCBE professor of Finance. Dr. Jain is currently an assistant professor of Finance in the department of Finance and Law at Central Michigan University. News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .