#http://www.memphis.edu/music/fac-staff/bios/ensley-m.php
Mark Ensley - Music - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Future Students Current Students Academics Ensembles Faculty Alumni Faculty and Staff Alphabetical Applied Music Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Class Piano Composition and Theory Conducting Jazz Music Education Music History Music Industry Home Music Faculty and Staff Mark Ensley Mark Ensley (M.F.A.) Opera Phone (901) 678-3787 Email mensley@memphis.edu Fax (901) 678-3096 Office MU 119D Office Hours Contact Mr. Ensley for appointments. About Mark Ensley Mark Ensley, Director of Opera Studies, has served on the artistic staffs of Des Moines Metro Opera, Tulsa Opera, and Opera Memphis, where he was for four seasons the Associate Conductor and Chorus Master. University of Memphis conducting credits include the world premiere of John Baur's The Promise (an opera based on the life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.), Idomeneo , Werther , The Crucible , Partenope , La bohème , Hansel and Gretel (winner of the 2008-09 NOA Opera Production Competition), and Raphael Lucas' Confession as part the 2012 NATS/NOA National Convention. In 2009 he made his conducting debut with the Israel Chamber Orchestra at the Tel Aviv Museum of Art. Mr. Ensley served on the conducting and coaching faculty of the International Vocal Arts Institute, Tel Aviv, Israel and Casalmaggiore, Italy, from 2000-2010, having conducted The Barber of Seville (Paisiello) Don Pasquale , Suor Angelica , Gianni Schicchi , and The Tales of Hoffmann . He served as music director for the US premiere of Bent Lorentzen's Pergolesi 's Home Service with the Chamber Opera of Memphis. An accomplished pianist, he has been heard in solo and chamber music recitals across the United States and Austria. He currently serves as Chairman for the Mid-South Region of the Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions. Mr. Ensley holds an undergraduate degree in piano performance from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and graduate degrees in piano and vocal coaching/conducting from the University of Wisconsin at Madison. He is also a magna cum laude graduate of the Franz Schubert Institute in Baden bei Wien,Austria, where he received a diploma in German Art Song Interpretation, having studied with Elly Ameling, Walter Berry, Jorg Demus, Hans Hotter and Ernst Haefliger. Former students of Mr. Ensley have sung at the Metropolitan Opera, Deutche Oper Berlin, New York City Opera, Opera Memphis, Nashville Opera and at prominent summer festivals and apprentice programs, including Chautaqua, Sarasota Opera, Des Moines Metro Opera, Opera Festival di Roma, the International Vocal Arts Institute, and Florida Grand Opera, among others. He can be heard in recordings with Lecolion Washington, bassoon, in "Legacy", works by African-American composers (Albany Records) and with Susan Owen-Leinert, soprano in "From the Treasure Chest of German Leid" (Highwater Classics). Faculty and Staff Alphabetical Applied Music Brass Keyboard Percussion Strings Vocal Arts Woodwinds Class Piano Composition and Theory Conducting Jazz Music Education Music History Music Industry Performances This Week See the latest updates Performances This Semester The season at a glance New Music Center A new destination for the arts Support Us Help us continue to make music Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .