#http://www.memphis.edu/benefits/info/workerscomp.php
Workers Compensation - University Benefits Administration - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. University Benefits Administration Staff Directory Benefits Information Related Resources &amp; Links Human Resources Benefits Information Prospective Employees New Faculty New Staff Current Employees Departing Employees Retiring Employees Home University Benefits Administration Benefits Information Workers Compensation Workers Compensation During the course of employment at the University of Memphis, we hope you are never injured on the job, or suffer from an occupational illness. If you do have an on-the-job injury, proper reporting of the situation will expedite the filing of a claim for medical expenses and compensation if necessary. What should I do if I am injured on the job? If it is an emergency, seek treatment at the nearest emergency room. Then contact your supervisor and the University Benefits Administration Office as soon as possible to start the claim process. In a non-emergency, notify your supervisor immediately and follow the steps below. Tell your supervisor what happened, how it happened, who saw what happened, and if you were injured as a result of the accident. You and your supervisor should then call the Workplace Injury and First Notice of Loss Call Center at 1.866.245.8588. Select option #1 to speak with a registered nurse who will evaluate the nature of your injury and determine your immediate care or treatment options. Your supervisor will only verify that you are reporting a work related injury to the registered nurse. If no medical treatment is recommended, the registered nurse will document the call for you and your supervisor and enter an incident report in the reporting system. If medical treatment is recommended, the nurse will direct you to the nearest State approved medical provider. You and your supervisor will need to complete the First Report of Injury or Illness form found online at First Report of Injury or Illness . This form should be returned to the Environmental Health and Safety Office. What to do when seeking medical treatment: Upon arrival, you should notify the medical facility personnel that you were injured while on the job. Follow-up doctor and/or specialist appointments must be arranged by CorVel and NOT by the injured employee or supervisor. You may contact CorVel to discuss existing claims at 1.888.226.7835. What to do after seeking medical treatment: It is the employee's responsibility to keep the University Benefits Administration Office notified regarding their work status. All medical documentation must be forwarded and provided to the University Benefits Administration Office only – not to your supervisor. Due to HIPAA privacy compliance, ONLY the University Benefits Administration Office will store medical records related to an employee's on the job injury. For Accidents Which Occur After Hours The Workplace Injury and First Notice of Loss Call Center at 1.866.245.8588 operates 24/7. In non-emergency situations, the employee and supervisor should call the Call Center and follow the steps above. First Report of Injury or Illness Near Miss Form Important Contacts CorVel's Workplace Injury and First Notice of Loss Call Center: 1.866.245.8588 Wallet Card University Benefits Administration: 901.678.3573 Employee Safety &amp; Health: 901.678.4671 State of Tennessee Workers Compensation Division Benefits Information Prospective Employees New Faculty New Staff Current Employees Departing Employees Retiring Employees Tiger Perks Exclusive discounts offered to UofM employees Affordable Care Act Important information related to the Affordable Care Act Forms All of B&amp;F's forms in one place Business &amp; Finance The Division of Business &amp; Finance at the UofM Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .