#http://www.memphis.edu/bme/future/
Future Students - Biomedical Engineering - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Biomedical Engineering Future Students Current Students Faculty Alumni Research Accreditation Future Students Visit Biomedical Departments Undergraduate Home Biomedical Engineering Future Students What is Biomedical Engineering? Biomedical Engineering is a broad field that focuses on improving health with the use of engineering principles. For example, designing new implants for those who suffer from hip fractures, developing tools sensing electrical signals to detect heart problems, discovering drugs to fight cancer and other illnesses are all possible job descriptions for BME graduates. Where Do Biomedical Engineers Work? Biomedical Engineers work in industry, in hospitals, and in research labs of government, academic, and industrial institutions. They may also become part of the regulatory function in government. Our program has a strong record of job placement after graduation. Approximately 54% of our students are now working in industry and 27% have continued on to with a graduate degree programs. Read More ... UofM offers accredited degrees at the Undergraduate and Graduate level in Biomedical Engineering Our undergraduate program in BME provides graduates with unique skills and knowledge for a wide range of career options. Our program is the only BME program within 200 miles. Students are exposed to basic and BME-specific engineering courses such as Biology, Biomechanics, and Biomaterials. During the senior year, students work in teams and focus on their capstone design project. All senior projects are sponsored by local device companies or local clinical groups giving our students an immersive experience in device design relevant to the biomedical and clinical community. Examples of recent Senior Projects Spinestein's Extended T-handle System BMR Racecar Bone Spreader Wheelchair Rain Shield ATLANTIS VISION® Elite Anterior Cervical Plate Our graduate program is a collaboration with the University of Tennessee Health Science Center (UTHSC). We offer three graduate degrees in BME: MS degree with project, MS degree with thesis, and PhD with doctoral dissertation. Students can choose to work in the areas of Biosensors, Biomechanics, Bioelectricity, and Biomaterials. During your time here in the BME Department at the UofM you can take advantage of ... Honors Program offering high achieving students a chance to develop advanced skills and undergo more extensive professional development during the BS degree. Accelerated BS/MS Program allows those students who are interested in advanced degrees to get started during their Junior year. The Cooperative (Co-op) Education Program offers students a real-world engineering experience with a one-year internship during their undergraduate education. International/Study Abroad Programs. Engineering is a global industry and profession in which engineers, scientists, and managers from diverse backgrounds and cultures must function in a dynamic international environment. Read More ... Mission The mission of the Department of Biomedical Engineering is:"To educate students in the Biomedical Engineering discipline so as to prepare them for immediate careers at the interface of life sciences and engineering and for advancement in their careers in industry, the professions and community" Future Students Visit Biomedical Departments Undergraduate Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/17/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .