#http://www.memphis.edu/shs/programs/health_promotion.php
Health Promotion - SHS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Health Studies About Programs Students Faculty Research Centers News Contact SHS Programs Undergraduate Dietetics Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Graduate Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Nutrition Science Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Commerce Home SHS Programs Health Promotion Health Promotion and Lifestyle Management Promoting Healthy Lifestyles...Building Healthy Communities The University of Memphis is pleased to offer undergraduate and graduate degree programs which focus on innovation, excellence, and best practices in Health Promotion. With lifestyle behaviors contributing to the leading causes of death and with a national obesity epidemic, there is an increasing demand for health promotion professionals in all sectors of society. Health promotion professionals encourage the adoption and maintenance of healthy behaviors which lead to: an active lifestyle healthy food choices freedom from substance abuse stress management healthy relationships social and emotional wellness other positive health behaviors Health promotion professionals enjoy variety in career options and employment settings and have the satisfaction of helping people improve quality of life. Our faculty is comprised of highly regarded researchers, academicians and practitioners who ensure that students receive a current and comprehensive education. The knowledge, skills, and abilities acquired in this program provide a comprehensive theoretical and practical grounding with a broad foundation of training in health, behavior change, leadership development, and program planning, implementation and evaluation. Coursework is further enhanced by practical experiences with existing health promotion programs. Major Health and Human Performance Concentration: Health Promotion and Lifestyle Management Degree: BSEd Health and Sport Science Concentration: Health Promotion (Online Program) Degree: MS Upon completing the program, students are well prepared to seek certifications offered by professional organizations including the National Commission for Health Education Credentialing Inc. (NCHEC), American College of Sports Medicine, WELCOA and Wellcoaches. Find us on Facebook . Student Testimonials Mandy Aycock "Whether you want to be a health coach or community educator, manage non-profit organizations or gyms, or coordinate worksite wellness programs, the field of Health Promotion offers versatility in career choice and the University of Memphis Health Promotion program prepares you to take your career as high up as you want to go." Shanna Clayborn "The Graduate Health Promotion program prepares you for the field no matter what your previous background is in. The program is also very flexible for those who work full or part time. Most classes are offered online, and the professor's work hard to keep everyone engaged." Evan Gerrard "The University of Memphis' Health Promotion program offers information around several different health and fitness organizations, courses on leadership, counseling, fitness instruction, and health habits and ways to apply each of these topics into real life scenarios. I feel as if this program is helping me gain the confidence I need to begin a successful career in the field of health and fitness." Michael Gratton "The Health Promotion Program has presented a way to narrow the many career and research opportunities that interested me. My research interests now involve holistic health, motivation and psychological health. Additionally, my background in psychology and counseling was easily integrated within this program and many of its courses." Tara Hill "After one Health Promotion course I knew this was the right program for me. The curriculum is designed to prepare you for a variety of Health Promotion jobs, the professor's care about your success and the classes are fun and interactive. If you have a passion for health and wellness and enjoy working with others the Health Promotion program may be right for you too." Maria Luchessi "The Health Promotion program provided me with real-world experiences in the form of graduate projects, internships, and assistantships, which gave me the experience and confidence I needed to pursue a career as a Wellness Coordinator."i Maddie Meadows "I graduated from the University of Memphis with my masters in Health Promotion and I am now a student in Occupational Therapy. There is currently a push in Occupational Therapy to combine their interventions with health promotion techniques. Not only do I get to learn something new in my current field, I am able to apply what I gained from the Health Promotion program." Misty Rackham "The classes included in the Health Promotion curriculum have been the most valuable learning experiences for me. Classes such as marketing, program development, counseling, aerobic and resistance training, and exercise physiology have all really helped. Actually, all of my Health Promotion classes have been influential in my new career!" Stephanie Rozar "The Health Promotion program offers a variety of classes that advanced my skills not just in making healthier lifestyle choices, but also in marketing, leadership, and program implementation and evaluation. These are skills that I will need to take with me to my next career or graduate school." Laura Todd "I chose the Health Promotion field because I wanted to work with people. In this field I get to work with so many different people and I get to help make a difference in their life." Careers Our graduates begin their careers in a variety of settings such as community wellness programs, hospitals and medical clinics, research facilities, health departments, fitness facilities, education settings, non-profit agencies, corporate wellness programs and other similar settings. Students graduating with a BSEd or MS degree are well prepared to obtain employment in for-profit and nonprofit sectors such as: Health Educator for Individuals and Groups Worksite Health/Wellness Coordinator Community Health/Wellness Educator Health Promotion Specialist Life Coach Prevention Specialist Senior Living Activity Coordinator Patient Educator and Lifestyle Counselor Health Promotion Communications Specialist Health Advocate School Health Coordinator Fitness Specialist Public Health Project Manager Research Project Coordinator Program Planner and Evaluator This concentration will also provide students with an opportunity to pursue graduate coursework in Health Promotion and other related fields. Research Within the Health Promotion program in the School of Health Studies, faculty pursue research devoted to the applied study of Health Promotion including personal health and wellness, behavior change, and community programming and design. Faculty members within HPRO secure external funding to support their research, and their work is published in both national and international peer-reviewed journals. Recent Projects PACE - Partnership for Active Community Environments (PACE) was a two year project funded by a grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH). PACE was a participatory based project focused on the incentives and barriers to building active community environments. Memphis Healthy U - Memphis Healthy U is an initiative that encourages students, employees, and visitors to our campus to eat healthier, move more, and become tobacco free. HPRO faculty are involved in the ongoing implementation of campus activities and events that promote a healthy lifestyle. GLITTER - Girls Learning Interrelated Techniques Targeting Environmental Risks (GLITTER) is a home-based intervention implementing multi-systemic practices aimed at increasing physical activity, improving diet quality, and attenuating BMI increase among pre-adolescent girls who are at risk for becoming obese. Memphis Grizzlies Family Fitness Challenge - The Family Fitness Challenge is a healthy lifestyle intervention and research study sponsored by the Grizzlies as part of the Memphis Grizzlies Healthy Home Court initiative. Four local families have been recruited to participate in this challenge that encourages healthy eating and physical activity through partnerships with local dietitians and fitness professionals at the YMCA. SHS Programs Undergraduate Dietetics Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Graduate Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Nutrition Science Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Commerce Apply Submit your application today Undergraduate Advising We’re always here to help Graduate Advising Faculty advisors aid in your success Degree Sheets Review the courses you’ll be taking Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/5/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .