#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/services/other.php
Other Activities and Services - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Services to Students Other Activities and Services Other Activities and Services Academic Counseling Center All freshmen, transfer, and readmitted students who have not decided upon an academic major are assigned to the Academic Counseling Center (ACC). The purpose of the ACC is to provide academic counseling that will prepare students to choose a major and then be enrolled into one of Uof M's degree granting colleges. The counselors are available by appointment to discuss the many academic programs offered and to help the students explore these possibilities as they relate to their personal and educational goals. Athletic Academic Services The Center for Athletic Academic Services is located in Wilder Tower, room 600, and provides counseling, tutoring, scheduling assistance, career planning and special services for all the University of Memphis student athletes. The center also handles NCAA interpretations and the academic eligibility requirements of student athletes. Intensive English for Internationals (ESL) The intensive English language program has been developed to meet the needs of internationals in Memphis and the surrounding area, and from abroad. English language instruction for non-native speakers of English is offered at five levels of instruction. For students coming from abroad, the program follows the University calendar for the fall and spring semesters. An eight-week session is offered during the summer. Internationals residing locally can enroll for shorter periods of time. Classes designed to meet special needs can also be arranged outside of those regularly scheduled. International Programs and Study Abroad The Office of International Programs administers semester and year-long exchange programs and facilitates study abroad programs for shorter periods of time. Exchanges are currently available at more than 120 colleges and universities in some 40 countries through the International Student Exchange Program (ISEP) and the College Consortium for International Students (CCIS). Some of the ISEP and CCIS programs are taught totally in English and others totally in the native language, but many provide the opportunity to increase language skills while taking other courses in English. Direct or one-on-one exchanges are also administered by International Programs. The University of Memphis currently has agreements for such exchanges with universities in China, Czech Republic, France, Japan, Korea, Germany, Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Negotiations to add to the number of exchange partners are underway, both direct and through our affiliated programs. Short-term study programs in the summer are offered by faculty members of the University of Memphis and through consortia and affiliated programs. Spanish study in Costa Rica and the British Studies Program in London are among the more popular offerings. The Office of International Programs also maintains a library of information on other international programs for semester or summer study around the world. International Student Identification Cards which provide insurance and discounts for students traveling abroad may be purchased at the Office of International Programs. Competitive Study Abroad Scholarships are available to academically able students. In order to assist with the added cost of international travel, financial aid, which is available for on-campus study, is available for study abroad as well. The Office of International Programs welcomes the opportunity to advise students on the possibilities of study abroad. Pre-Health The University of Memphis offers the prerequisite courses student must complete prior to applying for admission to professional school in medicine, dentistry, optometry, osteopathic medicine, pharmacy, veterinary medicine, podiatry, chiropractic medicine, physician assistant or cardio-respiratory care, as well as the prerequisite classes required for admission to an allied health program such as cytotechology, dental hygiene, health information management, medical technology, occupational therapy, or physical therapy. The Pre-Health Advising Center, located in 107 Scates Hall, and designated faculty members work closely with students seeking admission to professional school. Students receive counseling in regard to course sequencing and professional school admission requirements. In addition, the Pre-Health advisor coordinates workshops and meetings with health science professionals to provide students with in-depth insight into their chosen profession. The University of Memphis Chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta (AED), the National Premedical Honor Society, holds regular peer mentorship sessions and activities of interest to pre-health students. Qualified students are encouraged to apply for membership in AED. Membership eligibility criteria and application forms are available in 107 Scates Hall. The Pre-Health Advising Center welcomes the opportunity to be of assistance to students whose goal is admission to a health science professional school and encourages them to take advantage of the opportunities the Center provides. Pre-Law Law schools do not prescribe a definite pre-law curriculum for prospective applicants. Therefore, there is no single major required for pre-law students. Instead, law schools seek to attract applicants possessing a broad educational background. The University of Memphis offers a minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts, designed for students who intend to enter the legal profession. Course work in the minor introduces students to the major intellectual traditions of the West and assists in the development of the skills necessary for future success in law school. The Pre-Law Society provides students the opportunity to meet practicing attorneys, judges, law school faculty and admissions officers as well as other students with similar interests. The society, in cooperation with the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law, sponsors an annual orientation afternoon at the law school during which members have the opportunity to attend classes and meet law faculty and students. Students interested in law school, the minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts or the Pre-Law Society should contact the Pre-Professional advisor in room 107 Scates Hall, The University Store The University Store is managed by Barnes and Noble Bookstores, Inc. for the convenience of students, faculty and staff. In addition to textbooks and required school supplies, the store handles a large selection of general books, complete line of insignia clothing and gift merchandise, microcomputers, art supplies, and a variety of items for the convenience of the resident students. Post Office The University Post Office has post office boxes available for rent by students and faculty. Student mail should be addressed as follows: Student Name The University of Memphis XXXX Campus Postal Station Memphis TN 38152-xxxx Automobiles on Campus Each student who operates and parks any motor vehicle on the campus of the University of Memphis must be registered with the Parking Office by receiving an official permit (hang tag). Permits (hang tags) are permanent and must be displayed when parking a vehicle on campus. The Parking Office will issue each new student a permit (hang tag) when the student registers for classes. The student will receive a validation sticker for placement on the original parking permit every subsequent semester that he or she registers. A valid parking hang tag does not guarantee a parking space on University property. It is the driver's responsibility to locate an authorized parking space and abide by the parking rules and regulations of the University of Memphis. Citations will be issued and vehicles may be towed for violations. Art The Department of Art sponsors visiting artists and lecturers, workshops and symposia through the academic year. The Art Museum of the University of Memphis (AMUM) provides students and the community with an on-going schedule of exhibitions. It also houses permanent collections of African and Egyptian art and artifacts. The Museum maintains a wide selection of objects from ancient to contemporary that are available for student research. Music The Department of Music presents annually some 200 concerts, recitals and other cultural events to the University and community at large. It offers many activities and programs in which students may participate as individuals or as groups. Qualified students, regardless of major, may participate in the numerous musical groups including the University Symphony Orchestra, the University bands, and a variety of choral groups and small instrumental ensembles. Additionally the University's state-of-the-art recording studios are open for student use after proper instruction. Theatre and Dance The Theatre and Dance Department sponsors guest artists, workshops, and a full season of theatre and dance productions available to all full-time students. Additionally, all students, regardless of major, are invited to participate in departmental productions either as performers or backstage persons. Production opportunities exist in both the main theatre and dance season as well as many informal activities such as Lunchbox Theatre. Communication Programs in radio, television, and film are offered by the Department of Communication. WUMR-FM 92 is student operated. Two state-of-the-art television/film studios also offer students the opportunity to participate in broadcasting quality productions. Publication Students write and edit The Helmsman, the University newspaper (4 issues per week). Goodwyn Institute Lectures The lectures and addresses offered by the Goodwyn Institute cover a variety of subjects. The purpose of these lectures is to provide a system of continued education for adults and youths along general and special interests, concentrating on illustrated lectures covering all areas of the world, and to afford authoritative and accurate information upon practical and cultural subjects. Cheerleaders The University of Memphis cheerleaders are one of the "Premier College Squads in the Nation." The cheerleading squads consist of a Varsity team (up to 10 couples) and an all-women "Blue Squad" that has 14 to 16 members. The mascot, "Pouncer," and both squads cheer at all University of Memphis home football and basketball games. The Blue Squad also cheers for the Lady Tigers' home games in the Field House on the University of Memphis campus. The cheerleaders and "Pouncer" are involved in an array of community and University activities. For additional information, contact the Cheerleading Office, room 375, Field House. Pom Pon Squad The University of Memphis PomPon Squad is the top dance team in the country, having won the National Championships nine times. There are two squads, the Varsity and Junior Varsity. Both squads perform at all home football games. The Varsity attends all men's basketball games, performing half-time shows at selected games. The Junior Varsity performs at the Lady Tigers' home games. For additional information, contact the PomPon Office, room 377, Field House. Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .