#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/thisweek/docs/thisweek5-19-2014.pdf
Karen Weddle-West named Interim Provost Karen Weddle-West has been named Interim Provost at the University of Memphis, replac ing M. David Rudd, who assumed the presidency of the University on May 16. “I am pleased to announce that Dr. Weddle-West has agreed to serve in this important role overseeing the academic affairs of the University,” said Rudd. “Throughout her career, she has d emonstrated that she puts students and their needs first in everything she does. She is innovative and inclusive in how she approaches solutions. Her depth and breadth of knowledge, expertise and understanding of our academic programs across campus is unparalleled.” Weddle-West was appointed the University’s director of Diversity Initiatives in 2012, and has also served as vice provost for Graduate Programs since 2003. As diversity director, she has been the conduit for programs, services, funds and resources designed to promote, sustain and enhance campus diversity in high er education. As vice provost for Graduate Programs/dean of the Graduate School, she has overseen all programs and init iatives of the Graduate School. Notable accomplishments during her tenure include facilitating the launch of more tha n 60 new graduate programs and chairing or serving on more than 100 dissertation committees. Read more here .Melanie Murry appointed University Counsel Subject: This Week - May 19, 2014 From: Gabrielle Maxey Date: 5/16/14 3:25 PM To: lmoody@memphis.edu, grussll@memphis.edu IN THIS ISSUE... Karen Weddle-West named Interim Provost Melanie Murry appointed University Counsel Dr. Niles Reddick will lead lambuth Campus Announcements Calendar Contact May 19, 2014 Send Us Your News! thisweek@memphis.edu update@memphis.edu Check Out Our Deadlines! THIS WEEK's Next Issue: June 2 Deadline: May 27 This Week - May 19, 2014 1 of 4 5/19/14 10:51 AM Melanie Stovall Murry has been named University Counsel. She replaces Sheri Lipman, w ho recently was named U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Tennessee. In addition to provi ding leadership to the Office of Legal Counsel, Murry will also oversee the University’s Immigration Ser vices. “During her time at the University, Melanie has demonstrated a remarkable depth of kn owledge, broad range of legal expertise and competence that will serve the University of Memphis wel l. I have great confidence in her leadership of the Office of Legal Counsel,” said President M. David Rudd. Murry has been with the University since December 2002 and has served as both associa te and assistant University Counsel. She is also an adjunct faculty member for the doctoral program in higher education administration for the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences, as well as an instructor for the University’s Tennessee Institute for Pre-Law. She is a 2004 graduate of the Tennessee Bar Association’s Leadership Law and a 2008 f ellow of the New Memphis Institute. Murry has also served as a civil service commissioner for the city of Memphis. Read m ore here .Dr. Niles Reddick will lead Lambuth Campus Dr. Niles Reddick will become the new vice provost for the U of M Lambuth Campus, eff ective July 1. Reddick is currently vice president for academic affairs at Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College in Tifton , Ga. He earned a doctorate in humanities from Florida State University and has 20 years of experience in higher education teaching and administration. “The success of our Lambuth campus is critical to the future of the University of Mem phis and West Tennessee in general,” said President M. David Rudd. “I have great confidence in Dr. Reddick’s ability to im plement our strategic vision in Lambuth, strengthen community ties, and help grow our student base.” Announcements U of M will become home to Winfield Dunn Collection The University of Memphis has become the repository of the official papers from the a dministration of former Tennessee Gov. Winfield Dunn. Dunn served as governor from 1971-1975. The Governor Winfield Dunn Collection includes 35 linear feet of material. It contain s correspondence, speeches, photographs, newspaper clippings and other items from the early 1970s to th e late 1980s, including campaign literature. The collection also contains some audiovisual material .“The University of Memphis is thrilled to become the repository of the official paper s of the administration of Governor Winfield Dunn,” said former President Brad Martin. “The Dunn administration marked a time of substantive policy debate and significant change. From the introduction of statewide kindergarten to the political battles associated with the method of selection of Tennessee Supreme Court justices, students and historians will benefit f rom this enormous trove of information chronicling those fascinating times. We are grateful to Governor Dunn and the support ers of this initiative who have made it possible for the U of M to have this significant opportunity.” The U of M’s Oral History Research Office has a complete recorded history of the Dunn administration. “Every member of the Dunn cabinet was interviewed for the project,” said David Cox, executive assistant to the president. “Bringing the printed materials together with the recorded materials will provide a unique database from wh ich to write about the issues and politics involved with, at that time, the first Republican elected governor in 50 yea rs.” The Dunn Collection will be housed in the Ned R. McWherter Library’s Preservation and Special Collections Department. U of M student receives Harold Love Award The Tennessee Higher Education Commission has presented U of M student Alton Cryer wi th the Harold Love Outstanding Community Service Award. The Memphian is a senior majoring in sport and leisure manag ement with a minor in communication. This Week - May 19, 2014 2 of 4 5/19/14 10:51 AM Cryer is co-founder of the Setting the Standard (STS) Enterprise, a student organizat ion that focuses on motivating and empowering youth, particularly young men. The organization challenges young men to ex ceed expectations, defy stereotypes and strive for excellence through sporting events, school programs and family functio ns. Mentors and mentees have attended such events as empowerment workshops, prayer breakfasts and Memphis Redbirds games. Cryer’s roles in Setting the Standard include coordinating volunteer events and mento ring. Dan Larsen is new chair of Earth Sciences Dr. Dan Larsen will serve as the next chair of the Department of Earth Sciences. “I a m confident that he will be able to serve as an effective facilitator for the important positive changes that the department wi ll be undertaking over the next few years,” said Dr. Tom Nenon, dean of the College of Arts & Sciences. “I would like to thank all of those who participated in the selection process, and I would especially like to thank Dr. Esra Ozdenerol for he r candidacy and for the important contributions she has made and will continue to make to the department and the Univer sity.” Celebrate kindness at June 5 luncheon Student Affairs and Tiger Dining will host the fifth annual Kindness Lunch on Thursda y, June 5. The location will be announced later. The event celebrates kindness, civility and respect. Nominate someon e on campus who has been kind to you and receive a free lunch for you and that person. Nominees and nominators will be invited to have lunch together. Complete details about the lunch will be emailed to participants. Click here to fill out the online form. Submissions must be made by Friday, May 23. Commencement gets record number of views A record number of viewers watched as the U of M’s spring commencement was streamed l ive on May 10. There were a total of 1,316 views (911 unique views) from 83 countries, including Saudi Arabia, Iran, Eg ypt, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan and Trinidad and Tobago. Reminder of Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act The Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act of 1989 requires that the University annual ly review the University’s statement of policy with faculty and staff. The Drug-Free Campus and Alcohol Abuse Prevention p olicy UM1563 states: Students and employees are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dis pensation, possession, use or being under the influence of controlled substances (illicit drugs) and/or alcohol on the Un iversity of Memphis campus or on property owned or controlled by the U of M or as part of any University-sponsored act ivities. All students and employees are subject to applicable laws related to this matter and any violation of this policy wi ll result in disciplinary action up to and including expulsion or termination of employment with the University and referral for prosecution or mandatory satisfactory participation in a drug or alcohol abuse assistance or rehabilitation program. Health risks associated with the excessive use of alcohol include damage to the liver and heart; impairment of brain activity, digestion and blood circulation; and impairment of judgment and memory. The abuse of illicit drugs can lead to organ damage, impairment of physiological processes and impairment of mental functioning. T he risk of hepatitis, AIDS and other infections increases if illicit drugs are injected. Alcohol and other drugs can be fa tal in excessive amounts or in certain combinations. For more details and to review the entire policy, visit or contact the Office of Employee Relations and Engagement at 678-3076. Names in the News Dr. Amy de Jongh Curry , associate professor of biomedical engineering, was a workshop panelist for “Encoura ging Student Participation” at the NSF STEP Conference in Washington, D.C., in March. Curry, Dr. Stephanie Ivey , associate professor of civil engineering, Dr. Alistair Windsor , associate professor of mathematical sciences, Regina Hairston , program counselor in physics, and Dr. Rachel Best were co-authors of the poster presentation “MemphiSTEP: A STEM Talent Expansion Prog ram at the University of Memphis." Dr. Erno Linder , professor of biomedical engineering, attended the PITTCON 2014 conference in March in Chicago where he co-presented “Simple Voltammetric Method for the Determination of the Partition and D iffusion Coefficients in Solvent Polymeric Membranes.” Other presenters included Drs. Francine Kivlehan , Bradford Pendley and Edward Chaum . This Week - May 19, 2014 3 of 4 5/19/14 10:51 AM Dr. Shah Jahan , professor and chair of the Department of Physics, delivered the invited talk “Radia tion Effects on High-Performance Polymer: Poly (ether ether ketone)” at the seventh annual World Cong ress of Industrial Biotechnology in Dalian, China, in April. Dr. Mark H. Danley , associate professor and catalog librarian, participated in the panel discussion “Mi litary Historians and Bibliographers: Opportunities for Insight and Collaboration,” sponsored by the Biblio graphical Society of America and the Society for Military History and held at the 2014 Society for Military History annual meeting in Kansas City, Mo., in April. CALENDAR OF EVENTS / More listings at events.memphis.edu Monday/May 19 Art exhibit: "Disappearing Ink,” a collection of printed ephemera recording stories, history and cultural memory (through June 28) - Art Museum CONTACT Update / Greg Russell / update@memphis.edu / 678-3811 / This Week / Gabrielle Maxey / thisweek@memphis.edu / 678-2135 / This Week - May 19, 2014 4 of 4 5/19/14 10:51 AM