#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/thisweek/docs/thisweek4-28-2014.pdf
Chancellor recommends Rudd as next president Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR) Chancellor John Morgan has recommended Dr. M. David Rudd as the 12th president of the University of Memphis. His recommendation will be v oted on by the TBR in a conference call at 2:45 p.m. on May 1. The presidential search process included the valuable input of students, faculty and staff, as well as many alumni and community members in Memphis and Jackson, Tenn. You can read the full news release from TBR at .University will present honors for teaching, research and advising Dr. Kenneth Ward will be honored with the 2014 Willard R. Sparks Eminent Faculty Award at an awards luncheon on May 1. Ward is a professor and director of the Division of Social and Beh avioral Sciences in the Subject: This Week - April 28, 2014 From: "Gregory Russell (grussll)" Date: 4/28/14 9:20 AM To: All Faculty and Sta ! IN THIS ISSUE... Chancellor recommends Rudd as next president University will present honors for teaching, research and service NCAA awards grant for career readiness program Announcements Calendar Contact April 28, 2014 Send Us Your News! thisweek@memphis.edu update@memphis.edu Check Out Our Deadline! THIS WEEK's Next Issue: May 5 Deadline: April 29 This Week - April 28, 2014 1 of 5 4/29/14 8:50 AM School of Public Health. His research applies behavioral science to prevent and manag echronic diseases, including heart disease, cancer and osteoporosis. Other faculty and staff receiving awards are: Alumni Association Distinguished Teaching Award - Douglas Campbell, Economics; Nicole Detraz, Political Science; Kendra Murphy, Sociology; and Carmen Weaver, Instruction a ndCurriculum Leadership. Alumni Association Distinguished Research Award - E. Olusegun George, Mathematical Sciences, for Science, Engineering and Mathematics; Ruthbeth Finerman, Anthropology, for Social Sciences, Business and Law; Aram Goudsouzian, History, for the Humanities; Kri sten Iversen, English, for the Creative Arts; and Katherine Lambert-Pennington, Anthropology, for Engaged Schola rship. Alumni Association Distinguished Advising Award - Courtney Brafford, academic counsel or in the Academic Counseling Center, and David Horan, photography instructor in the Department of Art. Thomas W. Briggs Foundation Excellence in Teaching Award - Jacob Allen, Theatre & Dan ce, and Nataliya Doroshenko, Mathematical Sciences. NCAA awards grant for career readiness program A research team from the University of Memphis has received a grant from the NCAA to develop a career readiness program for student-athletes. The $10,000 grant was awarded to Dr. Tim Ryan, associate professor of sport and leisu re management in the Department of Health and Sport Sciences; Bob Baker, director of the Center for Athlet ic Academic Services; Kelly Penwell, director of the Experiential Learning Lab; and Dr. Richard Irwin, asso ciate dean of the University College. Irwin also oversees the Experiential Learning Lab, home to the University’s Academic Internship Program. The U of M proposal was one of six selected from 137 applicants. Student-athletes may be at a disadvantage in developing experiential learning opportu nities due to heavy time demands on their schedules. These include practice and conditioning sessions, missed classes and travel time due to away games, required and non-required study hall hours, film sessions and team meetings. These hectic schedules leave less time for completing practicums, internships and working towards post-baccalaureate goals. To help ease the transition from student to career, the U of M team will develop a fo ur-stage program for student-athletes that includes entrepreneurship training, project-based learning, wor kplace readiness training, and a practicum with a community partner. Read more here .Announcements Changes coming for This Week Readers will notice some changes in upcoming issues of This Week . Articles and features usually found in the Update newsletter will appear in This Week . Since both publications go to the same audience – faculty and staff – this will allow us to publish news and featu res in a timelier manner. Please continue to send story ideas and faculty and staff news and accomplishments to thisweek@memphis.edu . Feel free to let us know what you think of the changes. This Week - April 28, 2014 2 of 5 4/29/14 8:50 AM Votes help U of M cross the Finish Line Thanks to alumni, faculty, staff and students’ votes, the University crossed the “Fin ish Line” with the most cumulative votes and will receive $5,000 from the First Tennessee Foundation as part of its “150 Days of Giving” campaign. The U of M will designate the $5,000 gift to the Finish Line Progra m, which helps students who have completed 90 or more credit hours, but are no longer enrolled, pursue degree completion. The donation will help several students realize their dream of a college degree. To learn more about the Finish Line Program, click here .Shred Day set for May 9 There will be a Shred Day on May 9 for University of Memphis personnel only to drop o ff paper products from the University. All items should be removed from binders, but paper clips and staples may remain. If you need assistance moving any materials from buildings, email sustainability coordinator Amel ia Mayahi at askosta@memphis.edu before May 7. Drop items off on the main campus (between the Administration Building and the University Center) from 9 a.m. to noon and on the Park Avenue Campus (south e nd of building 45, across from the FedExPark entrance) from 1 to 3 p.m. You also may email Mayahi for more info rmation. Bypass the landfill, give to Goodwill Goodwill will be on campus May 6-8 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Central Avenue parki ng lot with donation trucks to pick up non-perishable, new and gently used items. The event is open to fac ulty, staff, students and the community. There will be trucks parked at the Living Learning Complex and Richard son Towers, but organizers ask that those trucks be reserved for residence hall students only. Commut er students, faculty, staff and the community are asked to use the Central Avenue lot drop-off location so that t raffic will not be obstructed near the residence halls. Learn more about engaged scholarship at May 1 event The Engaged Scholarship Committee will host a networking opportunity on May 1 from 4 to 6 p.m. at the Grove Grill, 4550 Poplar Ave. Faculty currently involved in engaged scholarship or interest ed in doing engaged scholarship will have the opportunity to meet, share their interests and explore poss ibilities for collaboration in an informal setting. RSVP to Katherine Lambert-Pennington, almbrtpn@memphis.edu , by April 30. Child Development Center will hold open registration The Child Development Center will hold open registration for the summer and fall 2014 semesters beginning May 1 at 9 a.m. Faculty, staff and students are welcome to enroll their preschool childre n, ages 30 months to 5 years, for the summer sessions. For more information, call the Center at 678-5059. Names in the News Dr. George Anastassiou , professor of mathematics, presented three invited articles during the annual meetin gof the American Mathematical Society that was held in Baltimore in January. Dr. Gerald Chaudron , associate professor and preservation librarian, University Libraries, has been acce pted for the 2014 Archive Leadership Institute at Luther College in Iowa. This competitive ins titute has been funded by the National Historical Publications and Records Commission since 2008 and recognizes those with leadership potential within the archival profession. Alton Simpson , director of Environmental Health and Safety, was elected a vice chair of the Memphi s/Shelby County Local Emergency Planning Committee (LEPC). The LEPC is a quasi-governmental or ganization mandated under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act. Charged with planning f or hazardous material This Week - April 28, 2014 3 of 5 4/29/14 8:50 AM incidents within Shelby County, LEPC membership includes elected officials and person nel representing law enforcement, emergency management, fire departments, hospitals, health departments, t he community at large, chemical facilities and the news media. CALENDAR OF EVENTS / More listings at events.memphis.edu or Monday/April 28 Open forum : Redefining the Library Committee - offer input on the libraries' future - UC Shelby Room (342) - 10:30 to 11:30 a.m. Art exhibit : “Disappearing Ink,” a collection of printed ephemera recording stories, history and cultural memory (through June 28) - Art Museum Concert : University of Memphis Wind Ensemble with Tiger Youth Wind Ensemble - Michael D. Rose Theatre - 7:30 p.m. - For ticket information, call 678-2541; free to U of M students, staff and faculty with ID - Details and complete schedule Tuesday/April 29 Baseball : Tigers vs. Mississippi Valley State - FedExPark - 6:30 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Concert : Southern Comfort Jazz Orchestra and Jazz Ensemble II - Harris Concert Hall - 7:30 p.m. - For ticket information, call 678-2541; free to U of M students, staff and faculty with ID - Details and complete schedule Wednesday/April 30 Softball : Tigers vs. Murray State - Softball Complex, Park Avenue Campus - 4 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Concert : “New Sounds,” performances of new chamber works written by U of M student composers - Harris Concert Hall - 7:30 p.m. - Admission free - Details and complete schedule Thursday/May 1 Graphic Design Exhibition - Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art, Gallery B, Art and Communication Building, second floor - 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Engaged Scholarship Committee networking event -Grove Grill, 4550 Poplar Ave. - 4 to 6 p.m. - RSVP to Katherine Lambert-Pennington, almbrtpn@memphis.edu , by April 30. Friday/May 2 Baseball : Tigers vs. Connecticut - FedExPark - 6:30 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Saturday/May 3 Softball : Tigers vs. Louisville - Softball Complex, Park Avenue Campus - 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Baseball: Tigers vs. Connecticut - FedExPark - 2 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Sunday/May 4 Baseball : Tigers vs. Connecticut - FedExPark – 11:30 a.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Softball : Tigers vs. Louisville - Softball Complex, Park Avenue Campus - noon - Visit gotigersgo.com CONTACT Update / Greg Russell / update@memphis.edu / 678-3811 / This Week / Gabrielle Maxey / thisweek@memphis.edu / 678-2135 / This Week - April 28, 2014 4 of 5 4/29/14 8:50 AM This Week - April 28, 2014 5 of 5 4/29/14 8:50 AM