#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/thisweek/docs/thisweek3-17-2014.pdf
Open sessions scheduled for presidential finalists The four finalists for the presidency of the University of Memphis are visiting campu s for interviews, open sessions and receptions now through March 25. The open sessions will give faculty and staff an opportunity to actively engage with the finalists. You are encou raged to attend an open forum for each candidate and then provide feedback on an online evalua tion form. As announced by the Tennessee Board of Regents, the finalists are: Guy Bailey, profes sor and former president of the University of Alabama; Sharon Gaber, provost and vice chancellor for Academic Affairs at the University of Arkansas; George W. Hynd, provost and executive vice president for Academic Affairs a t the College of Charleston; and David Rudd, provost at the U of M. For a complete schedule of activities and additional information on the candidates, v isit .Subject: This Week - March 17, 2014 From: "Gregory Russell (grussll)" Date: 3/17/14 8:59 AM To: All Faculty and Sta ! IN THIS ISSUE... Open sessions scheduled for presidential finalists Authors will explore life of dance pioneer Pearl Primus Economist will discuss free markets and the political scene Announcements Calendar Contact March 17, 2014 Send Us Your News! thisweek@memphis.edu update@memphis.edu Check Out Our Deadlines! THIS WEEK's Next Issue: March 24 Deadline: March 18 UPDATE's Next Issue: March This Week - March 17, 2014 1 of 6 3/17/14 11:30 AM Authors will explore life of dance pioneer Pearl Primus The Department of Theatre & Dance and the African-American Studies program will prese nt aspecial Women’s History Month lecture Wednesday, March 19, at 7:30 p.m. in the Univer sity Center Theatre. Guest speakers Peggy and Murray Schwartz will discuss their book T he Dance Claimed Me: The Biography of Pearl Primus .The event is free and open to the public. The Dance Claimed Me offers an intimate perspective of the life of Primus (1919-1994) and her influence o nAmerican culture, dance and education. Born in Trinidad, Primus’ work incorporated so cial and racial protest into her dance aesthetic and played an important role in presenting authentic African dance to American audiences. Friends and colleagues of Primus, the Schwartzes interviewed more than 100 family members, friends and professional associates to chronicle her life from childhood to international dan cer, early member of the New Dance Group in New York City and dance anthropology pioneer. Students will perform a dance from Primus’ repertoire, “Bushache – Dance of War, Danc e of Peace.” A book signing will follow the talk. For more information, call Kimberly Rogers at 678-2350. Economist will discuss free markets and the political scene Stephen Moore, chief economist at the Heritage Foundation, will provide his unique pe rspective on today’s political environment in light of his advocacy for free-market economic policies at t he University of Memphis’ Marcus Orr Center for the Humanities’ lecture Thursday, March 20. Moore’s lecture, “F ree Markets and the Modern Political Scene,” will be presented in the University Center Theatre with a re ception at 5:30 p.m. in the theatre lobby followed by the lecture at 6 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. As chief economist, Moore and the Heritage Foundation promote conservative public pol icies based on free enterprise, limited government, individual freedom, traditional American values and a strong national defense. Moore’s beliefs led him to found the Club for Growth, which raises money for politica l candidates favoring free-market economic policies. He went on to establish the Free Enterprise Club befor e joining the Wall Street Journal , where he served as a member of the editorial board and senior economics writer. He is the author of five books, including his most recent publication, Bullish on Bush: How the Ownership Society Is Making America Richer .In addition to his work advocating for free-market policies, Moore served as a senior economics fellow at the Cato Institute, where he published dozens of studies on federal and state tax and bud get policy. He also has had a distinguished career in public service as a senior economist on the Congressional J oint Economic Committee, consultant to the National Economic Commission, and research director for President R onald Reagan’s Commission on Privatization. Announcements UMAR accepting applications for scholarships This Week - March 17, 2014 2 of 6 3/17/14 11:30 AM The University of Memphis Association of Retirees (UMAR) is now accepting application s for its 2014-2015 scholarships. The UMAR Memorial Scholarship is a one-time award of $1,000. Priority is given to dependents (children or grandchildren) of UMAR members o rcurrent faculty and staff members. Applicants must have completed at least two full y ears of study, have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.25 and demonstrated leadership in Universit yactivities. In addition, UMAR is offering a $1,000 Graduate Scholarship with preference given to current faculty and staff who are taking classes. The deadline to apply for the undergraduate scholarship is March 31; the deadline for the graduate scholarship is April 15. More information, including links to the applications, is available at For additional questions, contact alumni coordinator Brandon Hoyer at bhoyer@memphis.edu or 678-1333. U of M will host Graduate School Recruitment Fair March 20 The U of M will host a Graduate School Recruitment Fair Thursday, March 20, from 1 to 6 p.m. in the Michael D. Rose Theatre. It is free and open to the public. There will be free GRE workshops at 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. Information will be available about the U of M’s 26 doctoral degrees, 54 master’s deg rees, 24 graduate certificates and the education specialist degree. Prospective students can also learn about financial aid, scholarships and fellowship programs, and may complete an online application for the Graduate School on the spot. For more information about the Graduate School, visit or call 678-4212. Philosophy conference will explore history of dignity The Department of Philosophy will host the interdisciplinary conference “Human Dignit y: The History of a Concept” March 21-22. The conference will explore the development of the concept of h uman dignity from its ancient counterparts in Homeric notions of honor and the Roman concept of dignitas , through its medieval, romantic and enlightened stages, ending in a discussion of human worth in the face of contemporary problems of atrocity and technological advances. For the full schedule, visit Students will test knowledge of foreign languages and cultures at fair More than 1,200 area high school students will demonstrate their knowledge of foreign languages and cultures at the 23rd annual Foreign Language Fair, which will be held Saturday, March 22, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the University Center. Students will compete in a variety of events, including poetry recitation, costumes, folk dance, drama, music, research projects, crafts and a culture bowl. Winners for these events – as well as f or poetry writing, essays and video submissions – will be recognized at an awards ceremony at the end of the Langua ge Fair. Events will be held for students of Chinese, French, German, Japanese, Latin and Span ish. A Teacher of the Year award will be presented to an outstanding area educator who has shown excellence in f oreign language teaching. This Week - March 17, 2014 3 of 6 3/17/14 11:30 AM The Fair is sponsored by the University’s Department of Foreign Languages and Literat ures. More dining options for Tiger Funds There are now more options for meals with your Tiger Funds. Tiger Funds can now be us ed at the Highland area locations of Garibaldi’s Pizza, Ubee’s & Domino’s Pizza – dine in only, no delivery. If your Campus Card is lost or stolen, go to memphis.edu/campuscard to deactivate your card and protect your account. CALENDAR OF EVENTS / More listings at or events.memphis.edu Monday/March 17 Midday Moves : Creative Movements with Dr. Moira Logan - UC Alumni Mall - 12:30 to 1 p.m. - Visit memphis.edu/memphishealthyu Art exhibit : 31st Annual Juried Student Exhibition (through March 19) - Art Museum Art exhibit : Sunny Montgomery: The Porcupine Effect (through March 19) - Art Museum, Caseworks Art exhibit : “Blue Hawai’i” by Laura Kina (through March 27) - Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art, Gallery B - Art and Communication Building, second floor Art exhibi t: ArtEd Alumni Exhibition (through March 27) - Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art, Gallery A, Art and Communication Building, second floor Experiential Learning Lab events : “What To Do If You Don’t Know What To Do,” 1 to 2 p.m.; “Time Management Skills for Interns,” 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. - Brister Hall, room 101 - 1 to 2 p.m. Tuesday/March 18 Women's History Month even t: “Inspiring Women of the 1960s” - Readings and performances celebrate women writers, artists and freedom fighters of the ’60s - McWherter Library rotunda - 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Midday Moves : Line Dancing - UC Alumni Mall - 12:30 to 1 p.m. - Visit memphis.edu/memphishealthyu FCBE Executive Lecture Series : Guest speaker Shelby County Mayor Mark Luttrell - FCBE, room 369 - 1 p.m. - Open to full-time MBA students Experience Counts interest meeting - Brister Hall, room 220 - 5 to 7 p.m. Lecture : “Free Markets and the Modern Political Scene” with Stephen Moore, author and senior writer for the Wall Street Journal - UC Theatre - Reception 5:30 p.m., lecture 6 p.m. - Free and open to the public Recital: Marcos Machado, double bass - Harris Concert Hall - 7:30 p.m. - Free admission - Complete schedule Friday/March 21 Philosophy conference : “Human Dignity: The History of a Concept” (through March 22) - Full schedule at memphis.edu/philosophy/dignity2014.php MIS Colloquium - Guest speaker Dr. Mark Keil of Georgia State University - FCBE, room 269 - 10:30 a.m. to noon WHM event : “Living History: Women of the Sea” - Five women veterans will share their stories of service in the Navy - Veterans Resource Center, Panhellenic Building, room 110 - 11 a.m. Nutrition seminar : “Heart-Healthy Food” - Mitchell Hall, room 403 - 11:45 a.m. - Complete schedule Computer Science Colloquium : “Socially Assistive Robotics” by Brian Scassellati of Yale University - Dunn Hall, room 351 - 12:30 p.m. WHM event : “The Perils of Pregnancy: Women’s Reproductive Lives in Ancient Egypt” - Mitchell Hall auditorium - 12:30 to 1:45 p.m. Midday Moves : Physical Training Drills with Police Services - UC Alumni Mall - 12:30 to 1 p.m. - This Week - March 17, 2014 4 of 6 3/17/14 11:30 AM Softball : Tigers vs. Mississippi State - Softball Complex, Park Avenue Campus - 4 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Baseball : Tigers vs. Murray State - FedEx Park - 6:30 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Wednesday/March 19 WHM Opening: Feminist Coming Out Day (rescheduled from March 3) - Talk by Dr. Zandria Robinson and screening of the short film The Other F-Word - UC Theatre - noon Midday Moves : March for Women’s History and Feminism Fair - UC Alumni Mall - 12:30 to 1 p.m. - Visit memphis.edu/memphishealthyu Experiential Learning Lab event : “Branding Yourself for Internship Success” - Brister Hall, room 101 - 1 to 2 p.m. Cognitive Sciences seminar : Guest speaker Panayiota Kendeou of the University of Minnesota - FedEx Institute of Technology, room 405 - 4 p.m. Comedy : Comedienne Jessi Campbell - UC River Room - 7 p.m. WHM event : “The Dance Claimed Me: The Biography of Pearl Primus” - Authors Peggy and Murray Schwartz will discuss the life of dancer and anthropologist Pearl Primus - UC Theatre - 7:30 p.m. Thursday/March 20 WHM event : Spa Day at the Relaxation Zone - Wilder Tower, room 211 - 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Midday Moves : Tailgate Games - UC Alumni Mall - 12:30 to 1 p.m. - Visit memphis.edu/memphishealthyu Graduate School Recruitment Fair - Michael D. Rose Theatre - 1 to 6 p.m., free GRE workshops at 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. Biological Sciences Seminar: “The Four Largest Mammals of the Brazilian Atlantic Rainforest: Current Status, Possible Causes and Consequences to Ecosystem Function” by Dr. Maria Luisa Jorga of Vanderbilt University - Ellington Hall auditorium - 4 p.m. Visit memphis.edu/memphishealthyu FCBE event : “Creativity, Innovation and Careers” - FCBE - 12:30 p.m. - Reservations required; RSVP to Cayla Cook at cdcook1@memphis.edu Bill A. Simco Research Scholarship reception - UC, room 340B - 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. CERI Colloquium : Guest speaker Ricardo Taborda - CERI seminar room, 3892 Central Ave. - 3 p.m. Biomedical Engineering Seminar : “Reliability of Cardiovascular Stents” by Dr. Jerald Redmond of Medtronic Spinal - Engineering Administration, room 203 - 3:30 p.m. - More details Baseball : Tigers vs. Temple - FedExPark - 6:30 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Concer t: Memphis Woodwind Quintet - Harris Concert Hall - 7:30 p.m. Free admission - Complete schedule Free HIV testing : Screenings by trained HIV counselors from Planned Parenthood of the Greater Memphis Region - UC, room 338 - 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. - Call 678-4545 Saturday/March 22 Executive MBA GMAT Review Session : General Overview & Strategies - FCBE, room 381 - 9 a.m. Baseball : Tigers vs. Temple - FedExPark - 2 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Sunday/March 23 Baseball : Tigers vs. Temple - FedExPark - noon - Visit gotigersgo.com Concert : Faculty and Friends Chamber Music - Harris Concert Hall - 3 p.m. Free admission - Complete schedule Circle of Sisterhood movie : Half the Sky - UC Theatre - 8 p.m. This Week - March 17, 2014 5 of 6 3/17/14 11:30 AM CONTACT Update / Greg Russell / update@memphis.edu / 678-3811 / This Week / Gabrielle Maxey / thisweek@memphis.edu / 678-2135 / This Week - March 17, 2014 6 of 6 3/17/14 11:30 AM