#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/thisweek/docs/thisweek2-17-2014.pdf
U of M will become partner in National Center for Veterans Studies The University of Memphis will become a partner institution with the National Center for Veterans Studies (NCVS) housed at the University of Utah. The NCVS was co-founded by U of M Provost Dr. M. David Rudd while a dean at the University of Utah. The NCVS mission is to engage in research, education, outreach and advocacy to improv e the lives of veterans, and better position these skilled, experienced and well-trained in dividuals for continued service that further advances American values, prosperity and security. “I am excited to announce the expansion of the NCVS to the University of Memphis, whi ch will greatly enhance the Center’s reach and capabilities,” said Dr. Craig Bryan, a clinical psychologist a nd executive director of the NCVS. “I look forward to the positive impact this new partnership will have on our wo rk with military personnel and veterans across the country. The locations of our respective institutions, in par ticular, will improve our collaborations with military and veterans’ organizations at the regional and local le vel.” Rudd and Bryan have led several clinical trials targeting active duty soldiers at ris k for suicide, with results to be released in the coming weeks. Rudd described the partnership as “a great example of h ow universities can work together to improve the lives of our veterans.” He added, “As an urban research unive rsity, the University of Subject: This Week - February 17, 2014 From: "Gregory Russell (grussll)" Date: 2/17/14 9:00 AM To: All Faculty and Sta ! IN THIS ISSUE... U of M will become partner in National Center for Veterans Studies Artist/author will explore "touchy” subject Nash Museum will celebrate heritage of southwest Memphis Announcements Calendar Contact February 17, 2014 Send Us Your News! thisweek@memphis.edu update@memphis.edu Check Out Our Deadlines! THIS WEEK's Next Issue: February 24 Deadline: February 18 UPDATE's Next Issue: March This Week - February 17, 2014 1 of 7 2/18/14 8:42 AM Memphis is well positioned to help expand the reach and impact of the important work of the NCVS. The hope is to expand beyond this partnership to bring in other universities around the country a s member institutions.” For more information about the NCVS, visit . Artist/author will explore "touchy” subject Celebrated artist, storyteller and author damali ayo will explore how racism has shap ed her community, the nation and her own artistic voice in a Marcus W. Orr Center for the Humanities lecture at the University of Memphis. She will present “Race-girl: How an Artist Tackled a Touchy Subject and How It Tackled Her” Thursday, Feb. 20, in the University Center Theatre. A reception will begin at 5:30 p.m., followed by the lecture at 6 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. Ayo is the author of How to Rent a Negr o, an unflinching satire about race relations, and Obamistan! Land Without Racism: Your Guide to the New America . She has written for such publications as Harpers, Village Voice, Redbook and the Chicago Tribune . Ayo is a frequent guest on public radio who has appeared on television programs ranging from B ook TV to The O’Reilly Factor . Her artistic pieces have appeared in a variety of exhibits, including “RACE: Are We So Different?,” which currently is on display at the Memphis Pink Palace Museum. Her appearance is being co-presented by the Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Ch ange and is part of a community-wide series of lectures throughout Memphis in conjunction with the Pink Pal ace’s exhibit. The lecture also is sponsored by the African and African-American Studies Program, th e Center for Research on Women and University Public Service Funds. Nash Museum will celebrate heritage of southwest Memphis The C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa will present “Celebrating Black History Month in t he Heritage of Southwest Memphis” Saturday, Feb. 22, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the museum. This event is free and open to the public. A pizza lunch will be served. The museum is located at 1987 Indian Village Dr. Presentations will include: “The Abandoned Cemeteries of Southwest Memphis,” by Coria na Close, assistant professor of art at the University of Memphis; “Documenting and Preserving a People's History - A Sense of Place” by Dr. Cynthia Jones Sadler of African and African-American Studies at the U o f M; “A History of Education in Southwest Memphis” by Dr. Earnestine Jenkins, associate professor of art history at the U of M; and “Comments and Recognition of U.S. Military Veterans” by Robert Gurley, president of t he Westwood Neighborhood Association Inc. There also will be a screening of the film Black Diamonds, Blues City , which tells the story of Negro League baseball, with emphasis on the Memphis Red Sox. For more information, call 785-3160 or email kjthmpsn@memphis.edu .Announcements Deadline extended for Green Fee proposals and ideas The deadline to submit proposals and ideas to the University of Memphis Green Fee Com mittee has been extended to noon on Friday, March 21. This Week - February 17, 2014 2 of 7 2/18/14 8:42 AM The committee is seeking proposals and ideas from students, faculty, staff and academ ic or administrative departments for 2014-2015. The Green Fee generates approximately $360, 000per year from students to be used to make the U of M campus more sustainable. For more information and to submit a proposal, go to /greenfee . For other questions, contact Julia Rhodes at jrhodes@memphis.edu or 678-2188. Career and Internship Expo set for Feb. 19 The University of Memphis’ Spring 2014 Career and Internship Expo will offer current students and alumni an opportunity to find jobs and internships with prospective employers. It will be held Wednesday, Feb. 19, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the University Center Ballroom. Employers representing numerous industries will recruit all majors for full- and part -time positions as well as internships. U of M students and alumni can network, obtain career information, and g ain experience talking to employers. The expo is free and open to students and alumni. Attendees should dress professional ly and bring copies of their resume. More information is available at or by phone at 678-2239. The Expo is sponsored by the U of M Career Services Office and the Academic Internshi p Office. Philosophy conference will address mental illness and power The 10th Annual Philosophy Graduate Student Association (PGSA) Conference will be hel d Feb. 21 and 22 with the theme “Mental Illness and Power.” All lectures and panel discussions are free and open to the public. Events on Friday, Feb. 21, will be held in University Center, room 300. David Goodman , professor of psychology at Lesley University and Harvard Medical School, will present the first keynote lectu re, “The McDonaldization of Mental Health: Science, Language, and Social Class" at 5 p.m. Prior to the keynote, there will be two panel presentations. The first panel, at 1 p. m., will discuss histories of mental illness; the second panel, at 3:15 p.m., will cover critical assessments of th e DSM-V. Events on Saturday, Feb. 22, will be held in University Center, room 261. Mary Beth M ader, professor of philosophy at the U of M, will present the second keynote lecture, “Say When It Hurts : The Time of Pathology in Mental Illness” at 3:15 p.m. Three panel presentations will lead up to the Saturday k eynote. The first panel, at 9 a.m., will discuss ethical problems of mental illness diagnosis; the second, at 10:45 a.m., will examine the role of disciplinary power in mental illness; the third, at 1:30 p.m., will explore mental illness and responsibility. This year's conference is sponsored by the PGSA, the Department of Philosophy, the Li llian and Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence, the Rehabilitation Counseling Program and Student Event Allocations fu nds. More information is available at River Lectures will explore learning to live together Join Communications professor Dr. Gray Matthews Feb. 19-21 for “The River Lectures: E ducation for the Resumption of Living-Not the Business of Commotion,” a three-part, multi-media presen tation to discuss what he calls the moral crisis of our times - the erosion of learning how to live together . The crisis will be discussed in three stages: “The River,” “The Dam” and “The Hermitage.” The lectures will begin at 7 p.m. in the Art and This Week - February 17, 2014 3 of 7 2/18/14 8:42 AM Communication Building, room 250. The event is free and open to the public. “The River” will explore the subtle communication dimensions of how we lose our sense of relations to one another and our sense of being alive. “The Dam” focuses on the problems and dangers o f the corporate restructuring of education to orient student-trainees for economic competitiveness an d individual survival. “The Hermitage” offers an alternative perspective to revive hope in the resumption of lear ning to live, instead of learning to compete, as a more time-honored way to recover and realize the possibilit ies of humane relations. Lecture on The Memphis 13 will mark the opening of Civil Rights Act exhibit Professor Daniel Kiel of the Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law will discuss his resear ch and the creative process behind The Memphis 13 , his acclaimed documentary about the first African-American children to desegregate the Memphis City Schools. The event will be held Tuesday, Feb. 18, in the Ned R. McWh erter Library. Light refreshments will be served at 5:30 p.m.; the lecture will start at 6 p.m. Kiel’s lecture will mark the opening of “The Civil Rights Act of 1964: How Far Have W e Come?,” an exhibition commemorating the failures and triumphs of the struggle for civil rights during the m id-20th century. The University Libraries is presenting the exhibition with the support of the Friends of the University Libraries. “The Civil Rights Act of 1964: How Far Have We Come?” will be on view in the rotunda and on the fourth floor of McWherter Library until June 15. Both the opening lecture and the exhibition are free and open to the public. For more information, or to register, click here .Campus telephone directories are still available The 2013-2014 University of Memphis telephone directory is available at either the Un iversity Center Information Desk or the Wilder Tower Information Desk. Bring a valid U of M ID card. The directory is helpful in locating useful phone numbers and building addresses. It also has coupons in the back from local merchants. Information about faculty, staff and students was collected through information provi ded in myMemphis as of September 2013. If your information is not correct, go to myMemphis and update your i nformation there for future directories. Information about department listings was collected from department offices. If this information is not correct, check with the person in your department who provides that information for the direct ory to ensure that your correct information is on file for use in future directories. Video of the week A biological sciences major is studying the environment and environmental processes. Watch his story here .CALENDAR OF EVENTS / More listings at or events.memphis.edu Monday/February 17 Midday Moves: “Minute to Win It” - UC Alumni Mall - 12:30 to 1 p.m. - Visit memphis.edu/memphishealthyu Art exhibit : 31st Annual Juried Student Exhibition (through March 19) - Art Museum Art exhibit : Sunny Montgomery: The Porcupine Effect Men’s basketbal l - Tigers vs. Rutgers – Piscataway, N.J. - 6 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Theatre : “Chess” (through Feb. 22 and Feb. 27-March 1) - Mainstage Theatre - 7:30 p.m. - For ticket information, call 678-2576 Friday/February 21 This Week - February 17, 2014 4 of 7 2/18/14 8:42 AM (through March 19) - Art Museum, Caseworks Art exhibit : “Bar 1-9” by Jordan Eagles (through Feb. 28) - Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art, Gallery A, Art and Communication Building, rooms 230 and 240 Economics Seminar : “House Prices, Heterogeneous Banks and Unconventional Monetary Policy Options” by Andrew Lee Smith of Kansas University - FCBE, room 263 - 2 p.m. Concert : University of Memphis Symphony Orchestra with student winners of the U of M Soloist Competition - Harris Concert Hall - 7:30 p.m. - For ticket information, call 678-2541 - Complete schedule Tuesday/February 18 SHRM Memphis Professional Meeting : “The HR Professional Competency Model: A Road Map for Success” - Fogelman Executive Center, main dining room - 11:30 a.m. Midday Moves: Line Dancing - UC Alumni Mall - 12:30 to 1 p.m. - Visit memphis.edu/memphishealthyu FCBE Executive Lecture Series - Guest speaker Cathy Ross, executive vice president and CFO of FedEx Express - FCBE, room 369 - 1 p.m. - Open to full-time MBA students Lecture : Professor Daniel Kiel will discuss his documentary The Memphis 13 , which will mark the opening of the exhibit “The Civil Rights Act of 1964: How Far Have We Come?” (through June 15) - Ned R. McWherter Library - Reception 5:30 p.m., lecture 6 p.m. - Free and open to the public - For more information or to register, click here .Wednesday/February 19 Career and Internship Expo - UC Ballroom - 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Engaging the Online Learner Kickoff Session: “Engaging the Student Series On-ground” by the Center for Teaching and Learning - Learn how to shape your class experience to the online learner - Rose Theatre Entertainment Lobby - 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. - For more information, click here Midday Moves : Yoga - UC Alumni Mall - 12:30 to 1 p.m. - Visit memphis.edu/memphishealthyu Diversity and Pre-Law Day - Preparation and preview day for those interested in attending law school - Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law - 9 a.m. to 2:15 p.m. - To register, email byboyd@memphis.edu .MIS Colloquium : “Towards a Deeper Understanding of Big Data Analytics and Its Impact on Enterprise Architecture and Enterprise Boundaries” by Vladimir Ambartsoumian - FCBE, room 269 - 10:30 a.m. Nutrition seminar : “Prebiotics and Probiotics: What Are They?” - Mitchell Hall, room 403 - 11:45 a.m. - Complete schedule FIR Seminar - Guest speaker Robert Korajczyk of Northwestern University - FCBE, room 381 - noon West Tennessee Seismic Safety Commission public meeting - U of M Holiday Inn, Audubon Room - noon - For more information, call 678-5264 or 678-3198 Midday Moves - UC Alumni Mall - 12:30 to 1 p.m. - Visit memphis.edu/memphishealthyu Biomedical Engineering Seminar - Guest speaker Ashley Cox Parker, PhD candidate - Engineering Administration, room 203 - 3:30 p.m. - More detail sSoftball : Tigers vs. Morehead State - Southaven, Miss. - 5 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Opening reception for art exhibit : “Blue Hawai’i” by Laura Kina - Martha and Robert Fogelman Galleries of Contemporary Art, Gallery B - Art and Communication Building, second floor - 6 to 8 p.m. - Exhibit runs through March 27 Concert : University of Memphis Symphonic Band - Harris Concert Hall - 7:30 p.m. - For ticket information, call 678-2541 - Complete schedule Free HIV testing : Screenings by trained HIV counselors from Planned Parenthood of the Greater Memphis Region - UC, room 338 - 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. - Call 678-4545 Saturday/February 22 “Celebrating Black History Month in the Heritage of Southwest Memphis” - C.H. Nash Museum at Chucalissa, 1987 Indian Village Dr. - 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. - For more information, call 785-3160 Women’s basketball : Tigers vs. SMU - FedExForum - 2 This Week - February 17, 2014 5 of 7 2/18/14 8:42 AM Cognitive Science Seminar : “Learning to Interact - A Machine Learning Approach to Dialog Management” by Giuseppe diFabbrizio of Amazon Inc. - FedEx Institute of Technology, room 405 - 4 p.m. The River Lectures: Education for the Resumption of Living-Not the Business of Commotion” (also Feb. 20 and 21) - Three-part multimedia presentation to discuss “the erosion of learning how to live together” by Dr. Gray Matthews - Art and Communication Building, room 250 - 7 p.m. - Free and open to the public Thursday/February 20 Midday Moves : Tailgate Games - UC Alumni Mall - 12:30 to 1 p.m. - Visit memphis.edu/memphishealthyu Biological Sciences Seminar : “Desmosomes: At the Crossroads of Adhesion and Signaling in Differentiation and Disease” by Dr. Kathleen J. Green of Northwestern University - Ellington Hall auditorium - 4 p.m. Experience Counts information session - Collierville, Carrier Center, room 116 - 5 to 7 p.m. - Register at 678-2716 or Lecture: “Race-girl: How an Artist Tackled a Touchy Subject, and How It Tackled Her” with artist and author damali ayo - UC Theatre - Reception 5:30 p.m., lecture 6 p.m. - Free and open to the public p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Softball : Tigers vs. Morehead State - Southaven, Miss. - 5 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Men’s basketbal l - Tigers vs. Temple - FedExForum - 8:30 p.m. - Visit gotigersgo.com Concert : University Singers with the Memphis Symphony Orchestra and Chorus - Cannon Center for the Performing Arts - 7:30 p.m. - For ticket information, call the Memphis Symphony box office, 537-2525 - Complete schedule Sunday/February 23 Softball: Tigers vs. Southeast Missouri - Southaven, Miss. - noon - Visit gotigersgo.com Concert : University Singers with the Memphis Symphony Orchestra and Chorus - Germantown Center for the Performing Arts - 2:30 p.m. - For ticket information, call the Memphis Symphony box office, 537-2525 - Complete schedule CONTACT Update / Greg Russell / update@memphis.edu / 678-3811 / This Week / Gabrielle Maxey / thisweek@memphis.edu / 678-2135 / This Week - February 17, 2014 6 of 7 2/18/14 8:42 AM This Week - February 17, 2014 7 of 7 2/18/14 8:42 AM