#http://www.memphis.edu/bme/currentstudent/
Current BME Students - Biomedical Engineering - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Biomedical Engineering Future Students Current Students Faculty Alumni Research Accreditation Current Students Visit Biomedical Department Undergraduate Home Biomedical Engineering Current Students Current BME Students The Department of Biomedical Engineering offers a "3 plus 2" program for undergraduate students who are interested in eventually earning a master's degree in Biomedical Engineering. The program is targeted towards students who are currently pursuing a B.S. degree in Biomedical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Physics, or other appropriate degrees.Students who participate in this program will be able to earn both the BS and the MS degrees in five years. Students with advanced placement credits may require less time. Most students will receive a paying job in a laboratory once accepted into the program. All students, once they reach senior status (within two semesters of graduation with their bachelor's degree) will become eligible for graduate assistantships (GA). The typical GA includes tuition-and-fees scholarship and a monthly salary. Students remain in GA status throughout their senior year and their graduate year(s). Scholarship and Employment The Cooperative Education Program in the Herff College of Engineering offers the traditional rotational co-op program experience. This type of program is structured so that a student alternates between full-time work assignments and full-time school attendance. However, many students prefer a cooperative educational experience whereby a student will work 10-20 hours per week for the employer and continue to take classes. In some institutions this sort of arrangement is designated as an internship rather than a co-op experience. Therefore, in the Herff College of Engineering, the two designations are often combined as "co-op/internship. Details... Herff Graduate Fellowships The Herff Fellowship provides financial support to outstanding graduate students in the Herff College of Engineering to support their studies toward the MS or PhD degree. MS students are supported for a maximum of 3 semesters, and PhD students for a maximum of 5 semesters (excluding summers). Details.. NSF Research Experiences for Undergraduates NSF funds a large number of research opportunities for undergraduate students through its REU Sites program. An REU Site consists of a group of ten or so undergraduates who work in the research programs of the host institution. Each student is associated with a specific research project, where he/she works closely with the faculty and other researchers. Students are granted stipends and, in many cases, assistance with housing and travel. Undergraduate students supported with NSF funds must be citizens or permanent residents of the United States or its possessions. An REU Site may be at either a US or foreign location. Details... Important Links for Scholarship Herff Post-Doctoral Fellowships Undergraduate Engineering Scholarships Clinton Douglas Watts Scholarship Whitaker International Program Scholarship Important Links for Employment Job Resource Center - AfterCollege Qmed Career Central BMES Career Center SFB Career Center Career &amp; Employment Services University Scholarships Academic Resources Academic Calendars Academic Policies Catalog: Undergraduate Catalog: Graduate Graduation Information Joint Graduate Program in Biomedical Engineering Honors Program Honors Program Application Advising &amp; Registration Advising Guide: Undergraduate General Degree Flow Chart Pre-Med Flow Chart Physics 2 nd Major Flow Chart Flow charts for focus areas: Biomaterials/Tissue Engineering, Biomechanics, Bioelectricity and Biosensors Advising Guide: Graduate Current Students Visit Biomedical Department Undergraduate Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .