#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/
Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology IEAA News and Information The Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology is a Tennessee Center of Excellence. It is a component of the Department of Art at The University of Memphis, in Memphis, Tennessee (USA). The IEAA is dedicated to the study of the art, history and culture of ancient Egypt through teaching, research, exhibition, and community education. The Egyptian Gallery is currently closed. The Art Museum &amp; Egyptian Gallery is closed for renovations and will reopen early spring 2016. Welcome Dr. Joshua Roberson! Dr. Roberson joins the Art Department as assistant professor of Art History teaching ancient Egyptian language courses to graduate students in the Art and History departments, and senior undergraduates in the newly approved BA concentration in Egyptian art in the Art History program. Dr. Roberson (PhD, Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, University of Pennsylvania) comes to us from Camden County College in New Jersey. He is also a consulting scholar for the Egyptian section of the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology and an active member of several on-going archeological projects in Egypt. He is the author of numerous works on ancient Egyptian religious texts, including The Ancient Egyptian Books of the Earth and The Awakening of Osiris and the Transit of the Solar Barques . For more information about Dr. Roberson, click here. Department of Art has new undergraduate Art History concentration for Ancient Egypt The new concentration gives undergraduate students the opportunity to study various aspects of ancient Egyptian culture, focusing primarily on its art, language and literature. The University of Memphis is one of only a handful of U.S. universities with undergraduate degree programs in Egyptology. For information about the undergraduate concentration in Egyptian Art, click here. Events and Programs for Fall 2015 For more information about these events visit the IEAA Events page, or select highlighted text in one of the events below. Tenth Annual Professor William J. Murnane Memorial Lecture Dr. Thomas Schneider, Professor of Egyptology and Near Eastern Studies at the University of British Columbia, will present this fall's Murnane Memorial Lecture Join us on the evening of November 17, 2015 in the Fountain View Suite (UC 350), University of Memphis Thirteenth Annual Legacy of Egypt Lecture Dr. Steven Vinson, Associate Professor Near Eastern Languages and Cultures at the University of Indiana University, Bloomington Coming in Spring 2016 (specific date and time to be determined) memphis.edu/egypt Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .