#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/course_descriptions/cas/ceri.php
CERI Courses - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning CERI Courses CENTER FOR EARTHQUAKE RESEARCH AND INFORMATION (CERI) CERI 7020-29-8020-29 (3). Special Topics in Geophysics. (ESCI 7020-29-8020-29) CERI 7104 - Data Analysis in Geophysics (3) (ESCI 7205). Overview of data analysis techniques and common tools in geophysics; includes working with the UNIX/LINUX environment; understanding shells; basic programming using Fortran, C, C++, and Perl; generating publishable graphics; emphasis on seismic data analysis using Matlab and Seismic Analysis Code. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CERI 7105 - Global Seismology (3) (ESCI 7401). Provides foundation for advanced graduate research, including fundamentals of continuum mechanics, vector calculus, and solutions of the vector wave equation in homogeneous and inhomogeneous media; understanding of current theories of earthquake occurrence and wave propagation within the earth. PREREQUISITE: Differential equations. CERI 7106 - Signal Processing Earth Sci (3) (GEOP 7602; GEOL 7358; ESCI 7602). Fundamentals of digital processing of geophysical data, both purely mathematical and applied aspects with attention to digital seismograms and gravity and magnetic data. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1920 or equivalent. CERI 7124 - Earthquake Ground Motion Simul (3) (Same as CIVL 7125-8125). Contemporary methods in earthquake ground motion simulation, applications in seismic hazard analysis and engineering, state-of-the-art simulation software. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the instructor. CERI 7204 - Prob Earthquake Hazard Anal (3) (Same as CIVL 7136; same as ESCI 7204) Fundamentals of basic probability, seismicity analysis, ground motion attenuation and site effects, seismic hazard analysis, and uncertainty analysis; students will perform a probabilistic seismic hazard analysis for a region of their interest. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CERI 7230 - Exploration Seismology (4) (ESCI 7404) Examines the reflective seismic approach to mineral exploration, and environmental and tectonic imaging; covers seismic data processing, data visualization, and acquisition procedures, including field equipment; hands-on experience analyzing seismic reflection records. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CERI 7244 - Regional Geop Synthesis (3) (GEOP 7112; ESCI 7112). Theoretical and practical aspects of geophysics applied to determining earth structure and investigating tectonic processes at a regional scale; major topics include gravity, magnetism, heat flow, geoelectric, and seismic methods, and their implications for lithospheric structure and deformational processes. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. CERI 7260 - Inverse Methods in Geophysics (3) (GEOP 7603; ESCI 7603). Methods for parameter estimation in earth sciences, including review of linear algebra and vector spaces, introduction to probability and statistics, and solution of inverse linear and nonlinear problems; students will solve an inverse problem in their field of interest. PREREQUISITE: Linear Algebra (MATH 3242 or equivalent) or permission of instructor. CERI 7270 - Earthquake Source Physics (3) Develops the tools for quantitative study of earthquakes and faulting. Covers kinematic moment tensor and finite fault representations of earthquakes, elastodynamics including common models for friction and fracture, and earthquake ground motions in the near source region. Prerequisites: partial differential equations and a basic background in numerical methods. CERI 7315 - Comp Methods in Geodynamics (3) (GEOL 7315-8315; ESCI 7315-8315). Introduces concepts of models and modeling; students will learn to develop and use a broad spectrum of modeling techniques, from simple mathematical models to more sophisticated finite element, finite difference models, and statistical modeling. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CERI 7353 - Geodynamics (3) (Same as ESCI 7353) Physical principles necessary for understanding plate tectonics and geological phenomena; major topics include stress and strain in earth's crust, bending of lithosphere, heat conduction in lithosphere, and mantel convection, solidification of magmas, mechanical behavior of faults, and subsidence of sedimentary basins. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CERI 7355 - Appls Space-Base Geodesy (3) (GEOP 7355; ESCI 7355) Emphasizes detecting, quantifying, and modeling changes in the geoid and earth's shape associated with geodynamic processes such as the seismic cycle and earth?s response to loading; concentrates on techniques such as VLBI, SLR, and INSAR. The relationship to traditional geodesy and application of GPS data to earth and space weather are also developed. CERI 7375 - Method/Math Physics I (3) (GEOP 7376; ESCI 7375; same as MATH 7375). Vector space, matrices, tensors, vector fields, function spaces, differential and integral operators, transform theory, partial differential equations. PREREQUISITE: MATH 3120, 4242 and 4350 or permission of the instructor. CERI 7376 - Method/Math Physics II (3) (GEOP 7376; ESCI 7376; same as MATH 7376, PHYS 7376). Complex variables, asymptotic expansions, special functions, calculus of variations, additional topics on matrices and operators, topics in non-linear analysis. PREREQUISITE: MATH 7375. CERI 7402 - Intermediate Seismology (3) (GEOP 7402; ESCI 7402). Provides foundation in seismic wave propagation based on thorough understanding of point source radiation, plane wave theory, optic ray theory, and point sources in plane-layered media. PREREQUISITE: A course in partial differential equations. CERI 7403 - Advanced Topics in Geophysics (3) (GEOP 7403; ESCI 7403-8403). Topics may include aspects of theoretical seismology, rock rheology and convection, faulting mechanics, advanced potential field techniques, or advanced field methods. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Instructor. CERI 7405 - Struct Interp Seism Reflec Dat (3) (ESCI 7405-8405) Practical application of reflection seismic method used in tectonic analysis of deformed belts and sedimentary basins, including case studies from around the world that emphasize integration of seismic reflection data with other surface and subsurface geological/ geophysical information, as well as use of restorable structural sections; basics of seismic processing are introduced in the framework of interpretation problems. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CERI 7621 - Independent Study (1-3) Independent investigation of a research problem selected in consultation with the instructor. May be repeated for a maximum of 6 credit hours. Grades of S/U or IP will be given. CERI 7701 - Seminar in Geophysics (3) (GEOL 7641, GEOP 7701, ESCI 7701). CERI 7702 - Seminar in Seismology (3) (GEOP 7702-8702; ESCI 7702-8702). CERI 7996 - Thesis (1-6) Student must research, write, and defend a thesis on a topic approved by major professor and advisory committee. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. CERI 8104 - Data Analysis in Geophysics (3) (ESCI 7205). Overview of data analysis techniques and common tools in geophysics; includes working with the UNIX/LINUX environment; understanding shells; basic programming using Fortran, C, C++, and Perl; generating publishable graphics; emphasis on seismic data analysis using Matlab and Seismic Analysis Code. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CERI 8105 - Global Seismology (3) (ESCI 7401). Provides foundation for advanced graduate research, including fundamentals of continuum mechanics, vector calculus, and solutions of the vector wave equation in homogeneous and inhomogeneous media; understanding of current theories of earthquake occurrence and wave propagation within the earth. PREREQUISITE: Differential equations. CERI 8106 - Signal Processing Earth Sci (3) (GEOP 7602; GEOL 7358; ESCI 7602). Fundamentals of digital processing of geophysical data, both purely mathematical and applied aspects with attention to digital seismograms and gravity and magnetic data. PREREQUISITE: MATH 1920 or equivalent. CERI 8124 - Earthquake Ground Motion Simul (3) (Same as CIVL 7125-8125). Contemporary methods in earthquake ground motion simulation, applications in seismic hazard analysis and engineering, state-of-the-art simulation software. Three lecture hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of the instructor. CERI 8204 - Prob Earthquake Hazard Anal (3) (Same as CIVL 7136; same as ESCI 7204) Fundamentals of basic probability, seismicity analysis, ground motion attenuation and site effects, seismic hazard analysis, and uncertainty analysis; students will perform a probabilistic seismic hazard analysis for a region of their interest. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CERI 8230 - Exploration Seismology (4) (ESCI 7404) Examines the reflective seismic approach to mineral exploration, and environmental and tectonic imaging; covers seismic data processing, data visualization, and acquisition procedures, including field equipment; hands-on experience analyzing seismic reflection records. Three lecture, two laboratory hours per week. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CERI 8244 - Regional Geop Synthesis (3) (GEOP 7112; ESCI 7112). Theoretical and practical aspects of geophysics applied to determining earth structure and investigating tectonic processes at a regional scale; major topics include gravity, magnetism, heat flow, geoelectric, and seismic methods, and their implications for lithospheric structure and deformational processes. PREREQUISITE: permission of instructor. CERI 8260 - Inverse Methods in Geophysics (3) (GEOP 7603; ESCI 7603). Methods for parameter estimation in earth sciences, including review of linear algebra and vector spaces, introduction to probability and statistics, and solution of inverse linear and nonlinear problems; students will solve an inverse problem in their field of interest. PREREQUISITE: Linear Algebra (MATH 3242 or equivalent) or permission of instructor. CERI 8270 - Earthquake Source Physics (3) Develops the tools for quantitative study of earthquakes and faulting. Covers kinematic moment tensor and finite fault representations of earthquakes, elastodynamics including common models for friction and fracture, and earthquake ground motions in the near source region. Prerequisites: partial differential equations and a basic background in numerical methods. CERI 8315 - Comp Methods in Geodynamics (3) (GEOL 7315-8315; ESCI 7315-8315). Introduces concepts of models and modeling; students will learn to develop and use a broad spectrum of modeling techniques, from simple mathematical models to more sophisticated finite element, finite difference models, and statistical modeling. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CERI 8353 - Geodynamics (3) (Same as ESCI 7353) Physical principles necessary for understanding plate tectonics and geological phenomena; major topics include stress and strain in earth's crust, bending of lithosphere, heat conduction in lithosphere, and mantel convection, solidification of magmas, mechanical behavior of faults, and subsidence of sedimentary basins. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CERI 8355 - Appls Space-Base Geodesy (3) (GEOP 7355; ESCI 7355) Emphasizes detecting, quantifying, and modeling changes in the geoid and earth's shape associated with geodynamic processes such as the seismic cycle and earth?s response to loading; concentrates on techniques such as VLBI, SLR, and INSAR. The relationship to traditional geodesy and application of GPS data to earth and space weather are also developed. CERI 8402 - Intermediate Seismology (3) (GEOP 7402; ESCI 7402). Provides foundation in seismic wave propagation based on thorough understanding of point source radiation, plane wave theory, optic ray theory, and point sources in plane-layered media. PREREQUISITE: A course in partial differential equations. CERI 8403 - Advanced Topics in Geophysics (3) (GEOP 7403; ESCI 7403-8403). Topics may include aspects of theoretical seismology, rock rheology and convection, faulting mechanics, advanced potential field techniques, or advanced field methods. PREREQUISITE: Permission of Instructor. CERI 8405 - Struct Interp Seism Reflec Dat (3) (ESCI 7405-8405) Practical application of reflection seismic method used in tectonic analysis of deformed belts and sedimentary basins, including case studies from around the world that emphasize integration of seismic reflection data with other surface and subsurface geological/ geophysical information, as well as use of restorable structural sections; basics of seismic processing are introduced in the framework of interpretation problems. PREREQUISITE: Permission of instructor. CERI 8701 - Seminar in Geophysics (3) (GEOL 7641, GEOP 7701, ESCI 7701). CERI 8702 - Seminar in Seismology (3) (GEOP 7702-8702; ESCI 7702-8702). CERI 9000 - Dissertation (1-9) Student must research, write, and defend a thesis on a topic approved by major professor and advisory committee. Grades of S, U, or IP will be given. Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .