#http://www.memphis.edu/mediaroom/thisweek/docs/thisweek12-02-2013.pdf
Don’t forget, open forum on presidential search is Wednesday Just a reminder that students, faculty and staff are invited to an open forum to disc uss the criteria and search process for the next University of Memphis president Dec. 4 from 11 a.m. to no on in the University Center River Room. Following the forum, the Search Advisory Committee will hold its first meeting in the Bluff Room of the University Center, beginning at 12:45 p.m. Both meet ings are open to the public. The search committee’s charge is to identify three to five finalists who will visit t he campus for interviews. Tennessee Board of Regents Chancellor John Morgan will then consult with members of the committee and make a final selection for submission to the TBR for approval. The committee will work with executive search firm Greenwood/Asher & Associates to he lp identify a broad range of highly qualified candidates from around the country. One of the committee’s first tasks at t he Dec. 4 meeting will be to decide on the criteria, schedule and process for identifying the finalists. Initial screening o f applicants is expected to begin in February. U of M and Russian university sign exchange agreement Subject: This Week - December 2, 2013 (use this one) From: Gabrielle Maxey Date: 11/27/13 11:54 AM To: lmoody@memphis.edu IN THIS ISSUE... Don’t forget, open forum on presidential search is Wednesday U of M and Russian university sign exchange agreement Support the Million Meals Challenge Announcements Calendar Contact December 2, 2013 Send Us Your News! thisweek@memphis.edu update@memphis.edu Check Out Our Deadlines! THIS WEEK's Next Issue: December 9 Deadline: December 3 UPDATE's Next Issue: January This Week - December 2, 2013 (use this one) 1 of 4 12/3/13 2:30 PM The Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute (IFTI) hosted a delegation of 20 Russian logisticsprofessionals as part of the International Trade Administration Special American Busi ness Internship Training (SABIT) Program Nov. 18-20. During the program, the U of M and Volga State Academy of Water Transport signed a me morandum of agreement to hold scientific, educational and cultural exchanges. Dr. Andy Meyers, U of M vice provost for Research, signed the agreement on behalf of Interim President Brad Martin. IFTI arranged a three-day freight transportation course for the Russian professional s that included time with several IFTI research faculty members to learn about the four modes of transportation and IFTI’s r esearch specialties, presentations from the Memphis logistics industry (BNSF, Commercial Advisors, CN Railway, Dunavant Logis tics, FedEx, and JAMAC Logistics) and a few technical tours. This is the fourth year that IFTI has hosted a SABIT group. “We are overwhelmed by the opportunity to solidify this international partnership wit h a transportation university in Russia. Partnerships like these truly signify the global impact of our research,” says Dan Pa llme, IFTI interim director. “This agreement impacts our current and future students by expanding their breadth of oppor tunities.” Support the Million Meals Challenge Join the Staff Senate in supporting the Million Meals Challenge through Dec. 5. Durin g the 2012 Staff Senate-sponsored food drive, U of M faculty and staff donated 616 pounds of food to the Mid-South Food Bank . You may bring your items to the Holiday Party on Dec. 5 from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. in the Administration Building, secon d floor atrium, or go to and select Memphis to donate online. Needed items include canned meats, peanut butter, Nutella, jelly and jams, canned fru it, canned vegetables, canned 100 percent fruit juice, boxes of macaroni and cheese, rice, non-perishable items (no gla ss) and money or gift cards. Other drop-off locations are: Administration Building, room 165; Ball Hall, second fl oor by elevator; Fogelman College of Business & Economics, room 400; CCFA Building lobby; McWherter Library, circulation d esk area; Mitchell Hall, lobby and room 219; Psychology Building, room 202; Scates Hall, room 107; and Wilder Tower, roo m 103 (Financial Aid) and room 201 (Scholarship Office). In 2012, Kroger created the Million Meals Challenge, a contest between the University of Memphis, Ole Miss and Mississippi State and surrounding communities to raise 1 million meals during the academic year. All proceeds collected for the MMC are donated directly to the Mid-South Food Bank and the Mississippi Food Network. For more information, contact Debra Turner at dmturner@memphis.edu or 678-5449. Announcements Teddy Bear Toss will benefit Le Bonheur Children’s Hospital The Tiger women’s basketball team will hold its annual Teddy Bear Toss to benefit Le Bonheur Children’s Hospital on Saturday, Dec. 7, when Memphis hosts UAB at 4 p.m. at the Elma Roane Fiel dhouse. Fans who bring a teddy bear or other stuffed animal to the game will receive free admissio n (one free admission per stuffed animal). The teddy bear toss will be at halftime with a chance to win great prizes. UMAR will ring in holidays with brunch and silent auction Dec. 10 The University of Memphis Association of Retirees will host its holiday brunch and si lent auction Tuesday, Dec. 10. The silent auction will run from 9 to 10:30 a.m. in the University Center Po plar Room and the brunch from 10 a.m. to noon in the UC River Room. The cost is $25 per person and includes brunch and park ing in the Zach Curlin garage. Tables of eight can be purchased for $175. Proceeds benefit the UMAR Scholarship Fund. There is no charge to participate in the silent auction only. To donate a silent auct ion item or to RSVP for brunch, contact alumni coordinator Brandon Hoyer at bhoyer@memphis.edu or 678-1333. Learn about the Campus Master Plan at open house Dec. 4 This Week - December 2, 2013 (use this one) 2 of 4 12/3/13 2:30 PM SmithGroupJJR, in conjunction with Looney Ricks Kiss Architecture, has been selected to assist in developing the University’s next Campus Master Plan. Master planning starts with a process of discovery – underst anding all aspects of the University of Memphis: its goals, aspirations, current challenges and opportunities for the future. This stage helps determine the planning vision and principles that guide decision-making throughout the 15-month process. To that end, the planning team will be on campus this week, and students, faculty, st aff and community members are invited to attend one of two Campus Master Plan Open House sessions. This is an oppor tunity to speak with the planning team at this initial discovery phase and join in the conversation regarding the future dev elopment of the U of M. You may choose one of two sessions. Both will be held Wednesday, Dec. 4, in the Unive rsity Center Ballroom, from noon to 1 p.m. and 5 to 6 p.m. To review additional information about the Campus Master Plan an d for updates, go to .Check out the exciting research being done at the U of M A PhD student in biomedical engineering is creating a future with fewer traumatic wou nd infections. She is developing a degradable drug delivery system that can be tailored for each patient directly in the operating room to help control and minimize traumatic infections. Watch the video here .CALENDAR OF EVENTS / More listings at orevents.memphis.edu Monday/December 2 Art exhibits : “Bauhaus twenty-21: An Ongoing Legacy - Photographs by Gordon Watkinson" and “Beyond the Cabbage Rose: Textiles Go Modern” (through Jan. 4) - Art Museum - More details Art exhibit : “Terri Phillips: We Have Always Lived in the Castle” (through Jan. 4) - Art Museum, ArtLab Exhibition : “Memphis and the Blues” (through Dec. 13) - McWherter Library, fourth floor and rotunda Concert - University of Memphis Chamber Orchestra - Harris Concert Hall - 7:30 p.m. - Free admission - Complete schedule Tuesday/December 3 Workshop: TBR Academic Affairs Research Grants - UC, room 340A - 3 to 4 p.m. University College Alumni Chapter Holiday Reception and Silent Auction - Alumni Center - 6 to 8:30 p.m. - Admission $10 per person; proceeds benefit the chapter’s Book Scholarship - RSVP at bhoyer@memphis.edu or 678-1333. Concert - University of Memphis Jazz Singers - Harris Concert Hall - 7:30 p.m. - Free admission - Complete schedule Wednesday/December 4 Campus Master Plan open house - University Center Ballroom - noon to 1 p.m. or 5 to 6 p.m. Concert - Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Holiday Concert - Harris Concert Hall - 12:45 p.m. - Free admission - Complete schedule Concert - University of Memphis Wind Ensemble - Harris Concert Hall - 7:30 p.m. - For ticket information, call 678-2541 - Complete schedule Thursday/December 5 U of M Holiday Open House - Administration Building, second floor atrium - 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. - The Staff Senate will be collecting canned food items to benefit the Mid-South Food Bank School of Public Health seminar - “Identifying Activation Centers With Spatial Point Processes Using fMRI Meta Data” by doctoral candidate Meredith Ray - Robison Hall, room 117 - noon Interest meeting : 2014 Strengthening Communities grant program - UC, room 338 - 3 to 4:30 p.m. - More details at Friday/December 6 Free HIV testing: Screenings by trained HIV counselors from Planned Parenthood of the Greater Memphis Region - UC, room 338 - 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. - Call 678-4545 - More details about Memphis Healthy U Saturday/December 7 Men’s basketball - Tigers vs. Northwestern State - FedExForum - noon - Visit gotigersgo.com Women’s basketbal l - Tigers vs. UAB - Elma Roane Fieldhouse - 4 p.m. - Teddy Bear Toss to benefit Le Bonheur Children’s Hospital at halftime; bring a teddy bear or other stuffed animal and receive one free admission per toy - Visit gotigersgo.com Football - Tigers vs. Connecticut - East Hartford, Conn. - noon - Visit gotigersgo.com This Week - December 2, 2013 (use this one) 3 of 4 12/3/13 2:30 PM CONTACT Update / Greg Russell / update@memphis.edu / 678-3811 / This Week / Gabrielle Maxey / thisweek@memphis.edu / 678-2135 / This Week - December 2, 2013 (use this one) 4 of 4 12/3/13 2:30 PM