#http://www.memphis.edu/notice/
UofM Notice - UofM Notice - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. UofM Notice Home UofM Notice UofM Notice Privacy Information Gathering Use of Information Security Third Party Sites Copyright Equal Opportunity / Affirmative Action Related Policies Privacy Policy Contact Us UofM Notice Privacy The University of Memphis is committed to respecting the privacy of its Web site visitors. To better protect your privacy we provide this notice explaining our online information policies and practices. This notice is made available through a link on our homepage and in the University's universal footer. It is not necessary to reveal any personal information to visit official UofM Web sites. Should you choose to provide us with any personal information it will only be used by the University of Memphis to conduct official University business. We will never disseminate personal information to any unaffiliated third party. Information Gathering When you access UofM Web pages, several pieces of access information are automatically collected. Collected information includes your IP address, identification of the page or service you are accessing, type of browser and operating system you are using, and date and time of the request. This information helps diagnose problems with our servers and with administration of our site. We do not use IP addresses to identify personal information. Portions of University of Memphis' Web site may use cookies. Cookies on the UofM site are typically used to recognize you and your access privileges across UofM Web sites. These cookies are stored on your computer, do not contain personal information, and can only be accessed remotely by the UofM. Use of Information The University of Memphis uses information collected on Web sites in several ways, including, but not limited to, the following: Creation of statistical reports based on Web usage Diagnosis of server problems and other technical issues Identification of individuals and their access privileges across UofM Web sites In addition, some UofM sites may solicit personally identifiable information. Providing information is your choice. Any personally identifiable information that is collected is for the purposes of official University business only. There are no legal requirements for you to provide any information to our Web site. Some features of the UofM site may not work without being able to collect certain technical information; for example, sites that require use of certain browsers will not work properly if the site is not able to determine which browser you are using. Security The University or Memphis has established appropriate network, server and managerial procedures to safeguard and help prevent unauthorized access and to assist in maintaining data security. Official web servers use encrypted connections when collecting or displaying sensitive information. Users should verify that a secure connection (https) is being used when submitting sensitive information via login and data collection forms. Third Party Sites Sites within University of Memphis Web may link to external sites outside of the memphis.edu domain as a convenience to you. If you use these links, you will leave the UofM Web site. The University of Memphis is not responsible for the content or privacy practices of such Web sites, and does not make any representations about them. Copyright Unless otherwise noted, all contents of the University of Memphis Web site are copyright University of Memphis. All rights reserved. Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action The University of Memphis, a Tennessee Board of Regents institution, is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action University. The University of Memphis is an AA/EEO employer and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability, veteran status, religion or age in its programs and activities. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the non-discrimination policies: EE/AA Compliance Officer Office for Institutional Equity 156 Administration Building The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152-3370 affirmact@memphis.edu Tel: 901. 678.2713 Fax: 901.678.4800 disclaimer Information found on the University of Memphis website is provided by multiple sources. Every effort is made to keep the content updated; however, the website may not always reflect the most recent actions on academic coursework or University policies, and is subject to change. The University reserves the right to revise the information on this website at any time and without notice. Any links to external websites and/or non-University of Memphis information provided on University pages or returned from University web search engines are provided as a courtesy. Linking to those websites does not represent an official endorsement of the information contained there. Related Policies TBR 1-08-00-00: Use of Technology Resources UofM Policy 1381: Equal Employment Opportunity, Affirmative Action, Discrimination and Nepotism UofM Policy 1:2A:11:02: Equal Educational Opportunity UofM Policy 1:2A:11:04: Equal Opportunity Association UofM Policy 1483: Use of Copyrighted Materials UofM Policy 1535: Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources UofM Policy 1248: Privacy of Education Records (Compliance with FERPA) UofM Policy TBD: University Web Sites UofM Notice Privacy Information Gathering Use of Information Security Third Party Sites Copyright Equal Opportunity / Affirmative Action Related Policies Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .