#http://www.memphis.edu/theatre/admissions/mtapplication.php
Musical Theatre Application and Audition Process - Theatre &amp; Dance - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Theatre &amp; Dance About Academic Programs Admissions People Production Archives Admissions Application and Audition Process BFA Performance BFA Musical Theatre BFA Design and Technical Production All MFA Graduate Studies Home Theatre &amp; Dance admissions Musical Theatre Application and Audition Process Musical Theatre BFA 1. All students should apply to the University of Memphis. Admission to the department of Theatre &amp; Dance is contingent upon successful admission to the University and generally we do not make a final decision on a student's application until they have been accepted to the University. Therefore, we encourage students to apply as early as possible. The online application can be found HERE . 2. Apply to the Department of Theatre &amp; Dance . As part of the application you will be asked to provide information about yourself and your history as a theatrical artist. In order to successfully complete the application you should be ready to: Provide biographical information about yourself and your family Provide information about your academic background include GPA and test scores Provide contact information including email for at least one reference who will be willing to submit a recommendation on your behalf Upload a resume including any past work in theatre Upload a short essay on your general background, theatrical interests and hopes, and why you are interest in study within the Department of Theatre &amp; Dance. The application is due no later than one week before your chosen audition date. START THE APPLICATION HERE 3. As part of the department application, you will have to make an appointment for one of our on-campus audition dates. The 2016 on-campus audition/interview dates for full scholarship consideration are: Saturday, February 27, 2016 Saturday, March 19, 2016 The musical theatre program ONLY offers auditions on-campus on these dates. Auditions on other on-campus days are for other programs only. In person auditions are required for all students who live within a 150 mile radius of Memphis. Students who are unable to travel to campus may upload material that best simulates the on-campus audition as part of the application process or participate in one of our regional auditions. Recorded auditions must be received by March 19, 2016 to be considered for scholarships. For entrance in 2016 students may complete their audition regionally by participating in the Undergraduate College auditions at the following festivals: North Texas Auditions - Greater Dallas Area - Thursday and Friday, November 19 and 20, 2015 Greater Houston Area Auditions - High School for the Performing and Visual Arts (HSPVA) - Sunday, November 22, 2015 South Eastern Theatre Conference (SETC) - March 2-5, 2015 - Greensboro, NC Tennessee Thespian Festival Arkansas Thespian Festival You will be prompted to select the site you wish to audition at as part of the application. The Musical Theatre audition is comprehensive and evaluates students' abilities in singing, acting, and dance. Space in the program is limited and will be given to students who best exhibit potential for development in the field based on the audition. For the audition students should prepare: One short monologue from a play not to exceed 2 minutes. The monologue must be memorized and should be performed in the context of the entire play. The emphasis is on simple reality. Though not required, students may bring additional monologues to the audition, which may be seen at the discretion of the faculty. One song from the standard musical theatre repertoire. The song must be memorized and should be performed in the context of the entire show. An accompanist will be provided. Students may bring their own accompanist but no recorded accompaniment will be permitted and students may not sing a cappella. Though not required, students may bring additional songs to the audition, which may be seen at the discretion of the faculty. Students may also be asked to do some short pitch-matching exercises. A dance audition will be required which will consist of a short dance class at the conclusion of which a musical theatre combination will be taught and performed for the faculty in small groups. Suggestions for the audition: Choose monologues that are appropriate for your age and experience. Be able to discuss the play as a whole. It's best to select monologues from plays, as opposed to special material written for monologue books. Avoid historic styles, such as Shakespeare, and verse or poetry. Avoid dialects. Use good judgment in selecting the monologues, avoiding pieces that may be inappropriate because of language or situation. Choose songs with which you can communicate a specific situation in a clear context with an objective (goal). Make the situation as honest and specific as possible. Select material that is suitable for your age and experience. Choose songs that fit comfortably within your range. If you are using a transposition of a song, be sure that you have correctly printed the melody, lyrics and accompaniment in the new key. Your music should be in a binder, or taped without page turns. Though it isn't possible to prepare specifically for the dance audition, applicants generally have better success if they either have dance training or have danced to various degrees in productions. While the performance of the musical theatre combination is important equal emphasis is given to the class section of the audition. Students who seem readily trainable in movement will be most successful in the audition. 4. Students can expect to hear about their application status approximately two weeks after their audition has been completed. Scholarship decisions are generally made during the first week of April. All students are automatically considered for scholarships provided they complete their in-person (or online) audition by March 28th. *Note: The department of Theatre &amp; Dance application is hosted online by Decision Desk, a third party company. Decision desk charges $20 per application to complete the online application. Applying online allows the faculty to review your application in the most timely fashion, and is the easiest and fastest way to apply to the Department of Theatre &amp; Dance. If you do not wish to apply online please use the following link to request more information about other options. Admissions Application and Audition Process BFA Performance BFA Musical Theatre BFA Design and Technical Production All MFA Graduate Studies 2015-2016 Season Join us for our 2015-2016 Theatre &amp; Dance Season In the News Cassie Beck (BFA '99) talks about her role in the Roundabout Theatre production of The Humans. Watch Me – Theatre Video Take a closer look at the UofM Department of Theatre &amp; Dance Anthony Pellecchia Meet our new lighting and sound designer Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/14/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .