#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/services/req_freshman.php
First - Time Freshman Applicants - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives Home UGCatalog Services to Students First - Time Freshman Applicants Freshman Admission Requirements First-time Freshman Applicants A high school graduate who has no previous college enrollment may be considered for admission as a first-time freshman by completing the application for admission and submitting the following to the Admissions Office: 1. A final transcript of all high school credits: Early decisions can be made by submitting partial transcripts (6th or 7th semester). Transcripts hand delivered by the student are not acceptable for the admissions file. If any courses have been taken for college credit, the institution(s) granting credit must be contacted by the applicant and asked to send an official transcript to the University of Memphis, Office of Admissions. Students who do not present one unit of American History are required to register for the course during their first or second year at the University. 2. The score report of the American College Testing program (ACT) or the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT): The score report is a necessary part of the application and the test date should be no more than three years old at the time of enrollment. 3 . A non-refundable application fee of $25.00. 4. Any additional items and information requested in the application materials by the Office of Admissions. High School Curriculum Required For Admission No high school curriculum can assure that a given student will acquire desired learning outcomes; however, the absence of certain components greatly increases the likelihood that the student will not acquire those outcomes and reduces the likelihood that the student will enjoy maximum benefits of a college experience. The justification for colleges' recommending or requiring specific high school units for admission is to reduce the likelihood that a student will be unprepared for effective work in college and to increase maximum benefits a student may enjoy. The following specific high school units must be included in the minimum admissions requirements at all Tennessee State Board of Regents universities and colleges. Students who do not take one or more of these required courses, where they are available, may not be eligible for admission to the University. English (4 units required): Units in this category must address reading and literature, writing, speaking and listening, and principles concerning the English language. Extensive experience in reading and writing should characterize all courses. Visual And/Or Performing Arts (l unit required): Units in this category should include a survey of the arts (visual arts, theater, music, and dance) or active participation in one or more of the arts. Mathematics (3 units required): Units in this category must include Algebra I, Algebra II, and geometry or an advanced course with geometry as a major component. Students are recommended to take a fourth unit in computing, advanced mathematics, or statistics. All college freshmen will benefit by having studied mathematics as seniors. Natural And Physical Sciences (2 units required): Units in this category must include mathematical skills, fundamental concepts, and some laboratory and field work. At least one unit must address detailed knowledge in the more traditional fields of biology, chemistry, or physics and must include a laboratory. Social Studies (1 unit required): For students graduating prior to spring 1993, the unit in this category may include: history, government, geography, economics, sociology, psychology, or anthropology. For students graduating in the spring 1993 or thereafter, this unit must come from the following: modern history, ancient history, world history, world geography, or European history. US History (1 unit): This is in addition to the Social Studies requirement. Foreign Language (2 units required): Two units in a single foreign language are required in this category. These stipulated high school units are not intended to specify what the total high school curriculum should be. Secondary schools seek to meet the needs of various student clienteles, one of which is the college-bound student. The stipulations are an attempt to make a strategic application of academic competencies. They reflect the bridge from specific desired learning outcomes to a list of required college admission criteria. That list is composed of high school units presumed most likely to result in the required learning outcomes. For the sake of clarity, one unit constitutes one year of high school study of a given subject. Applicants who wish to provide additional information regarding special talents or circumstances may do so by contacting the Office of Admissions. Applicants who are admitted to the University with a foreign language deficiency will need to check with the Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services to find out what is necessary to remove the deficiency as soon as possible. For additional Information for Non-traditional First-time Freshman Applicants including: GED Applicants (under the age of 21), Homeschooled Applicants, Early Admission Applicants , 21+ First-time Freshman Applicants (21 years of age or older w/a high school diploma or GED) CLICK HERE Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/21/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .