#http://www.memphis.edu/sph/programs/hspcurriculum.php
HSP PhD Curriculum - SPH - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Public Health About Programs People Students &amp; Alumni News Programs MHA Admissions Apply Now Competencies Day One Internship Handbook Mission, Vision and Values Newsletter Program Requirements MPH Admissions Apply Now Competencies Handbook Practicum Program Requirements Epi PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook HSP PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook SBS PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook Population Health Certificate Interpreter Course Interpreter Course Information Interpreter Course Requirements Interpreter Course Registration &amp; Payment Home SPH Programs HSP PhD Curriculum HSP PhD Curriculum The HSP doctoral program is a 60 semester hour degree program. Students are required to fulfill prerequisite courses PUBH 8150 Biostatistical Methods I, PUBH 8170 Epidemiology in Public Health I, and HADM 8160 Health Policy and the Organization of Health Services, or document their equivalent. Credit hours for these prerequisite courses will not count toward the 60 hours required for graduation. Health Systems and Policy Major Core PUBH 8710 Health Care Economics HADM 8102 Health Care Law HADM 8204 Quality and Outcomes Management in Health Care PUBH 8502 Health Policy, Theory and Methods PUBH 8503 Health Systems Decision-Making PUBH 8504 Information Technology and Organizational Change PUBH 8109 Health Care Information Systems Research Methods Core A total of nine (9) credit hours is required; students select three (3) of the following courses: HADM 8106 Health Services Research; and select two of the following courses: PUBH 8334 Community Based Participatory Research Methods PUBH 8172 Epidemiology in Public Health II PUBH 8174 Epidemiology in Public Health III PUBH 8141 Epidemiologic Survey Methods PUBH 8444 Public Health Surveillance PUBH 8450 Randomized Clinical Trials PUBH 8347 Quantitative Methods in Health Research PUBH 8339 Translational Research Methods in Population Health Biostatistics Core PUBH 8152 Biostatistical Methods II; and two (2) of the following courses for a total of nine (9) credit hours: PSYC 8301 Research Design and Methods PSYC 8302 Advanced Statistics PSYC 8304 Measurement Theory and Psychometrics PSYC 8305 Quantitative Methods of Review in Research PUBH 8104 Large Data Sets in Public Health Research PUBH 8306 Linear Structural Modeling PUBH 8308 Applied Multivariate Statistics PUBH 8310 Mixed Models Regression PUBH 8311 Applied Categorical Data Analysis Elective courses Students will chose up to 6 credit hours of faculty-guided electives. Doctoral seminars PUBH 8900 Advanced Concepts in Public Health I PUBH 8901 Advanced Concepts in Public Health II Dissertation PUBH 9000; up to nine (9) credit hours HSP PhD Program requirements In addition to completion of the 60 semester hours of required coursework, program requirements include successful completion of written and oral comprehensive examinations, and the preparation and successful defense of a dissertation in accordance with the University of Memphis Graduate School policies and guidelines. Questions about the HSP PhD Program curriculum and degree requirements? Dan Gentry, PhD, Professor and Director Health Systems Policy and Management 901.678.3437 jdgntry2@memphis.edu Programs MHA Admissions Apply Now Competencies Day One Internship Handbook Mission, Vision and Values Newsletter Program Requirements MPH Admissions Apply Now Competencies Handbook Practicum Program Requirements Epi PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook HSP PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook SBS PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook Population Health Certificate Interpreter Course Interpreter Course Information Interpreter Course Requirements Interpreter Course Registration &amp; Payment Apply Now Contact Us Support SPH Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .