#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/location/
Location - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Location Visiting the Egyptian Gallery &amp; Contacting the Institute. The offices of the Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology, (hereafter IEAA), are located in the Art and Communication Building on the campus of the University of Memphis in Memphis, Tennessee (USA). This building also houses the Department of Art, the Visual Resource Center, and classrooms. The Egyptian Gallery is closed. we will reopen spring 2016. The Art Museum and the Egyptian Gallery The collection of Egyptian antiquities of the IEAA is on display in the Art Museum of the University of Memphis (AMUM) in the Communication and Fine Arts building. An exhibition of about 200 ancient Egyptian objects is on permanent display in the Egyptian Gallery of the Art Museum. Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Contact Information For an appointment with an IEAA staff member, please call or write using the contact information below. The office is located at: Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology 315 Art and Communication Bldg. The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152-3140 Phone: 901.678.2555 FAX: 901.678.1632 Art Museum Contact Information, Hours and Tours The Art Museum of the University of Memphis is located at: 142 Communication and Fine Arts Bldg. 3750 Norriswood The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152-3200 Phone: 901.678.2224 FAX: 901.678.5118 Art Museum Schedule Open: Monday through Saturday Hours: 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Closed: University Holidays and between Temporary Exhibits The Art Museum, including the Egyptian Gallery, is open to the public and is always FREE! Tours The Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology provides trained graduate student docents for groups wishing a guided tour of the ancient Egyptian and African ethnographic exhibitions in the Art Museum of the University of Memphis. In addition, the Art Museum and the IEAA are sometimes able to provide guided tours of the Contemporary exhibitions at the Art Museum. To schedule a tour, contact the Art Museum at 901.678.2224. NOTE: Groups are required to contact the Art Museum in advance and are strongly encouraged to schedule a docent tour guide. Groups must be accompanied by a leader or chaperone. Directions The IEAA offices and the Art Museum are both located on the main (north) campus of the University of Memphis in Memphis, Tennessee (USA). Driving directions to the city of Memphis, TN and the University of Memphis The city of Memphis is situated in the extreme southwestern corner of the state of Tennessee, on the east bank of the Mississippi River. Memphis is accessible via Interstate Highways I-55 and I-40 from the west (Arkansas), I-55 from the south (Mississippi), I-51 from the north and I-40 from the east (Tennessee). The main campus of the University of Memphis is bordered by Central Avenue on the north, Patterson and Zach Curlin streets to the west and east, and Southern Avenue to the south. Major arterials leading to this area are Airways Blvd./East Parkway Blvd. and Highland Ave. (north-south) and Poplar Ave. (east-west). University of Memphis Campus Map The offices of the Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology are located in the Art and Communication Building (ACB on the map), in the north campus area. The Art Museum and the Egyptian Gallery are in the Communication and Fine Arts (CFA) building, located in the north central area of the main campus. This is south of Central Avenue and to the east of Innovation Drive (formerly known as Deloach Ave.). The Art Museum is located on the ground floor of the CFA building, at the eastern end of the building. Parking at the University of Memphis Parking for visitors to the IEAA and the Art Museum is available at metered spaces in the Central lot to the north of Central Avenue. Cost is $2.00 per hour. Ticketed parking is available in the Fogelman/Deloach garage for $2.00 per hour. The garage is located south of Central Avenue, off of Innovation Drive (formerly known as Deloach Ave.). These parking areas are listed as Lots 44 (Central) and 40 (Fogelman/Deloach) on the parking diagram. Coming from a Distance? Memphis International Airport is a 20-minute drive from the University of Memphis campus via Airport Boulevard and Central Avenue. The Holiday Inn at Wilson School, located on the north side of Central Avenue at Deloach Avenue, is conveniently located near the Art Museum and the IEAA. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/29/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .