#http://www.memphis.edu/its/governance/tlac.php
Teaching &amp; Learning Advisory Committee - ITS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Information Technology Services About umTech Security Governance Resources Governance Governance Structure ITS Extended Governance ITS Governance Structure ITS Governance Technical Teams and Work Groups Technology and Higher Education Reports IT Governance in Higher Education Decentralized IT Governance 2014 Horizon Report TechQual+ Surveys FY2012 Techqual+ Survey FY2013 Techqual+ Survey FY2013 Techqual+ Summary and Action Plans FY2014 Techqual+ Survey ITS Strategic Planning FY2014 ITS Strategic Plan FY2014 ITS Strategic Plan Follow-up FY2014 ITS List of Completed Projects Home ITS Governance Teaching &amp; Learning Advisory Committee Teaching &amp; Learning Advisory Committee The Teaching and Learning Technologies Advisory Committee (TLAC) shall advise the CIO and the Provost on technologies and issues related to teaching and learning; will advise the Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) in teaching and learning initiatives; shall develop and review academic technology standards, guidelines, and policies; shall advise on priorities for academic technology initiatives; provide a forum for investigation and advises on new teaching and learning technologies, and facilitate communications regarding academic teaching and learning initiatives. TLAC Agendas and Minutes charge The Teaching and Learning Technologies Advisory Committee shall advise the CIO and the Provost on technologies and issues related to teaching and learning; will advise the Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) in teaching and learning initiatives; shall develop and review academic technology standards, guidelines, and policies; shall advise on priorities for academic technology initiatives; provide a forum for investigation and advises on new teaching and learning technologies, and facilitate communications regarding academic teaching and learning initiatives. composition The committee is comprised of students, representatives of each college, the Library, the Faculty Senate, and the Provost's office. The chair is appointed by the Provost for a two year term. The Director of the CTL works with the Chair to establish the agenda and to facilitate coordination with other IT initiatives and groups. member role A member's role is to provide input on behalf of constituents; to disseminate information on new teaching and learning technologies; to assist in implementing IT policy and procedures; to make recommendations with a University perspective. The committee meets regularly throughout the academic year. advisory path Policy to the IT Policy &amp; Planning; advisory to the CTL, CIO and Provost. Governance Governance Structure ITS Extended Governance ITS Governance Structure ITS Governance Technical Teams and Work Groups Technology and Higher Education Reports IT Governance in Higher Education Decentralized IT Governance 2014 Horizon Report TechQual+ Surveys FY2012 Techqual+ Survey FY2013 Techqual+ Survey FY2013 Techqual+ Summary and Action Plans FY2014 Techqual+ Survey ITS Strategic Planning FY2014 ITS Strategic Plan FY2014 ITS Strategic Plan Follow-up FY2014 ITS List of Completed Projects Security Information Learn more about IT security policies and guidelines. Need Help with Technology? Request technical support via UMhelpdesk. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .