#http://www.memphis.edu/shs/programs/pete.php
PETE - SHS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Health Studies About Programs Students Faculty Research Centers News Contact SHS Programs Undergraduate Dietetics Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Graduate Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Nutrition Science Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Commerce Home SHS Programs PETE Physical Education Teacher Education The Physical Education Teacher Education (PETE) program at the University of Memphis is led by a vibrant and productive faculty that is nationally and internationally recognized for its scholarship. We are also highly engaged in our local community, specifically with the local school districts, the YMCA, City of Memphis Parks, and even the Memphis Grizzlies. Our programs are fully accredited by NCATE and the State of Tennessee. We provide research and service learning opportunities for students in our large partnership network. We offer financial support for students and prepare them for numerous career opportunities. Future undergraduate students have the option of taking the PETE licensure or the non-licensure track. The licensure program prepares students to become physically literate teachers and coaches who are trained in the best practices of Physical Education and Wellness. There are multiple field experience opportunities with some of the finest teachers in the local schools. And the new Ready2Teach Residency program, which is a full-year student teaching experience, emulates an authentic school year starting at the very first day of school. This superior student teaching opportunity grooms our students to be effective teachers in a comprehensive manner. Our non-licensure PETE option, the Community PE program, involves some of the same courses that the licensure students take, and prepares that student to teach and coach children physical activity patterns in community settings (i.e., YMCAs, local Parks &amp; Recreation programs, Boys &amp; Girls Clubs). The PETE graduate program is a research-based master’s degree that builds on the student’s undergraduate experience. Higher level physical education content is focused on, research methods are cultivated, and the culminating experience is an applied project or thesis based on the student’s research topic interests. Numerous former graduate students have published in high tiered journals and/or presented their cutting edge research at local, state, and national meetings. Major Physical Education Teacher Education Concentration: Licensure Degree: BSEd Physical Education Teacher Education Concentration: Non-Licensure Degree: BSEd Physical Education Teacher Education Concentration: none Degree: MS Careers Students graduating with a BSEd or MS degree are well-prepared to attend graduate school within the following areas*: Physical Education Teacher Education (K-12) Health Education (K-12 Community-Based Youth Serving Agencies * Note: Students should seek the guidance of the Academic Services Coordinator, the pre-health professional advisor, faculty mentors, and/or the school of interest with regards to needed pre-requisite courses for graduate school admission. Students are also well-prepared to begin employment within the following areas: Corporate Wellness Health Club Facility Management Personal Training Group Fitness Instruction Fitness and Wellness Coaching Strength and Conditioning Coaching Human Performance Labs Within the School of Health Studies, a collection of faculty-directed laboratories is available devoted to the scientific study of human health, performance, and fitness. The laboratories and their respective directors are listed here . Both undergraduate and graduate students have opportunities to participate in faculty-directed research, through their acting as a participant. Students also work within the various labs as volunteers, interns, or graduate research assistants. PETE Majors Club The PETE Majors Club Officers for 2014-2015: Co-Presidents - Nathan Forsythe, Laura Schifani Co-Vice President – Dustin Roberson, Blake Scarbrough Secretary/ Treasurer – Dustin Duren Social Events Coordinator/ Fundraising - Rachael McLean Officer Election for 2015-2016 year- April 2015 If you are a PETE Major then you should join the PETE Majors Club Why you ask? The purpose of the PETE Club... Assist you in taking the necessary steps to complete your degree Praxis II study groups Volunteer opportunities Network with other PETE students during their studies, student teaching and career Opportunities to attend state and national conferences- TAHPERD and SHAPE Leadership opportunities opening up at the end of this semester to become an officer Looks GREAT on your resume How do I join? Contact Laura Schifani llschfni@memphis.edu or Nathan Forsythe nfrsythe@memphis.edu - Co-Presidents of PETE Majors Club Dr. Todd Layne can assist you as well Membership Costs: $15.00 per year (and you get a shirt) How to stay connected: Like the pages on Facebook 1) Physical Education Teacher Education: University of Memphis 2) University of Memphis Office of Teacher Education 3) TAHPERD Growth and Development Opportunities April 2016 - SHAPE National Convention Charlotte, NC - April 23-27, 2013 Contact: Todd Layne telayne@memphis.edu October 2015 - TAHPERD Conference Murfreesboro, TN - November 2013 (TBA) Contact: Todd Layne telayne@memphis.edu Upcoming Volunteer Opportunities April 21 st : 9:45 AM-Noon – Assist Shrine School students at the Cordova Skate Center. Please contact Dr. Layne if you can assist. April 17 th : 11:30 AM-12:30 PM – Assist Shrine School students at their 2014-2015 Prom. This event will take place in the Shrine School Gymnasium. Scholarships UG Catalog Grad Catalog SHS Programs Undergraduate Dietetics Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Graduate Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Nutrition Science Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Commerce Apply Submit your application today Undergraduate Advising We’re always here to help Graduate Advising Faculty advisors aid in your success Degree Sheets Review the courses you’ll be taking Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/5/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .