#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/bus/bit.php
Business Information and Technology - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Business Information and Technology Business Information and Technology ROBIN POSTON, PhD Chair Room 301A, Fogelman Admin Building 901.678.5739 SANDRA RICHARDSON Master's Program Coordinator Room 313, Fogelman College of Bus &amp; Econ 901.678.4614 srchrdsn@memphis.edu CHEN ZHANG, PhD PhD Program Coordinator Room 300, Fogelman Admin Building 901.678.5671 czhang12@memphis.edu I. In the Department of Business Information and Technology qualified students may work toward the Master of Science degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Business Information and Technology, and the PhD degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Business Information and Technology. NOTE: Every graduate student must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MS in Business Administration with Concentration in Business Information and Technology A. Program Admission Satisfactory performance on the Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT) or Graduate Record Exam (GRE). Satisfactory undergraduate grade point average as evidenced by an official transcript (evaluated by an agency such as WES if an international student). Submit an application to the Graduate Admissions Office. International Students must submit scores on the TOEFL exam. B. Concentration Prerequisites For those students with a limited information systems background, the department requires MIS 7060 and MIS 7070. C. Concentration Requirements Each candidate must complete a minimum of 33 semester hours of approved graduate courses. The 33 graduate credits include a minimum of 21 hours in the concentration (24 if a thesis is written). Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. MIS 7160, Computer Hardware and System Software; MIS 7605, Business Database Systems; MIS 7610, Systems Analysis and Design; MIS 7615, Data Communications Systems and Network; and MIS 7640, Information Systems Management and Planning as part of their degree program. MIS 7650, Information Systems Global Enterprise and FIR 7155, Global Financial Management are also required for the MSBA degree program. MIS 7650, Information Systems Global Enterprise and Other courses can be selected from MIS courses as approved by the departmental master’s coordinator. At least 24 of the 33 credit hours required must be in courses designed primarily for graduate students (7000 level or above). The comprehensive examination requirement for the MS in Business Administration with concentration in Management Information Systems is satisfied by successful completion of MIS 7640. D. Experiential Learning Credit Students enrolled in the MSBA programs with a concentration in Business Information and Technology will be allowed to request a maximum of six credit hours of experiential learning credit for the purposes of meeting their degree requirements (the six credit hours will apply toward the required credit hours needed to complete a concentration).This six credit hours of experiential learning credit will be granted only for students who have qualified, exceptional experience that can be related to one or more courses in the degree program. In order to request consideration for the credit hours, students must submit a portfolio for review by following the guideline the University College developed. For more information about the guideline, refer to the University College’s Experiential Learning Credit website: ( ). III. PhD Program The PhD program in BIT at the University of Memphis aims at preparing students for a successful academic career as scholars. The BIT department prides itself on maintaining a supportive research and teaching atmosphere. PhD students are encouraged to actively get involved in research with faculty right from the first semester. Our program nurtures students' innate curiosity while providing them with mentoring and support to train them for independent research and professional responsibilities. BIT courses include topics such as information systems management, business database systems, systems analysis and design, business intelligence, data communications and networks, information assurance and data security. In research seminars students review the core topics in information systems, with an emphasis on current research. Students also take four courses related to research methodology, as well as two courses related to research in the field of information systems. BIT faculty publishes applied and theoretical research in the top tier MIS academic journals, focusing on the AIS-6 journals: MIS Quarterly, Information Systems Research, Journal of MIS, Journal of the AIS, European Journal of Information Systems , and Information Systems Journal . Our faculty’s research spans multiple lines of inquiry including managerial, behavioral and technical topics and we employ empirical approaches, modeling, experimental, qualitative, design science and econometric methodologies. Our PhD program in BIT benefits from a mix of junior faculty members complementing our existing strong cadre of senior faculty. This brings opportunity for the students to work in diverse research areas like information value, IS service quality, strategic information management, outsourcing and the use of open source, system testing and management, social networks, online consumer behavior, business value of IT, information assurance management, global IS issues, knowledge management, technology in the supply chain, healthcare IS, ethics and philosophy of IT, innovation &amp; strategy, and IT leadership. Our doctoral students actively participate in and benefit from the various initiatives the department is involved in such as weekly MIS research colloquium, the Systems Testing Excellence Program (STEP), and the Center for Innovation Technology Management. For admission, prerequisites, and program information, see the college website at: IV. Graduate Certificate Program in Software Testing Software testing is a critical discipline as organizations increasingly rely on information systems that are becoming increasingly more complex. This certificate prepares students to both manage and participate in testing at all stages of the software development process. The topics and techniques are applicable to testing all types of software. A. Admissions Requirements Same as College and University requirements. The certificate can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the University. Non-degree seeking applicants must submit a brief (1-2 pages) statement that describes educational and work experiences in business, including their background in software testing. GMAT scores are not required. However, acceptance into the certificate program is not an implied acceptance into any master’s degree program. B. Program Requirements: The following 4 courses must be satisfactorily completed for a total of 12 hours of credit. MIS 7610, Systems Analysis and Design (3 hours) MIS 7655, Advanced Systems Analysis and Design (3 hours)* MIS 7681 Management of Software Testing (3 hours) MIS 7682, Software Testing Tools and Techniques (3 hours) *COMP 6081, Software Development, may be substituted for MIS 7655. C. Graduation Requirements The student must complete all 4 required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. V. Graduate Certificate Program in Business Information Assurance The Business Information Assurance (BIA) certificate prepares students to perform critical activities needed to properly manage an organization’s assets related to a wide range of information security/privacy threats. Training related to effective managerial methodologies has become increasingly important in planning for possible breaches of security and handling resulting problems. A. Admissions Requirements Same as College and University requirements. The certificate can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the University. Non-degree seeking graduate students may also pursue this certificate program of study. To be approved for the program, these students must submit evidence of this non-degree-seeking graduate student status, along with the completed application form, to the Department of Business Information and Technology for review. Acceptance into the certificate program is not an implied acceptance into any master’s degree program. B. Program Requirements: This program requires completion of 12 semester credit hours, as follows: Six hours (two courses) from this group: MIS 7455 – Cyber Ethics in Information Technology* MIS 7670 – Computer and Network Security ACCT 6241 – Auditing and Assurance ACCT 7241 – Internal Auditing *COMP 7900 – Cyber Ethics may be substituted for MIS 7455 Six hours (two courses) from this group: MIS 7160 – Computer Hardware/System Software MIS 7615 – Data Communications Systems/Networks ACCT 7420 – Accounting Databases/Systems CJUS 6180 – Corporate/White Collar Crime C. Graduation Requirements To obtain the certificate, a student must complete four courses, with two selected from the first group of courses and two selected from the second group courses, for a total of 12 credit hours. A minimum grade of B is required for each of the four courses. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. VI. Graduate Certificate in Business Intelligence and Analytics The business analytics discipline has become very important in information systems and industry, due to increased access to big data, unstructured and structured data, and strategic business decision making. These increasingly complex decision making capabilities lead directly to competitive advantage and increased profits. Thus, trained business analysts with skills in addressing data management and business intelligence and analytics are in high demand. A. Admission Requirements: Same as College and University requirements. B. Program Requirements: The following 4 courses must be satisfactorily completed for a total of 12 hours of credit. Three hours (one course) from this group: MIS 7190 Programing For Business PUBH 7156 SAS for Health Research Three hours (one course) from this group: MIS 7660 Advanced Data Management COMP 7116 Advanced Database Systems Three hours (one course) from this group: MIS 7620 Business Intelligence COMP 7118 Topics in Data Mining Three hours MIS 7621 Data Analytics for Business C. Graduation Requirements: The student must complete all 4 required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. VII. Graduate Certificate in Business Project Management Graduate certificate program in Business Project Management prepares individuals for project management team work and to be project managers with specific emphasis on the integration of information systems and business processes. This certificate program will address the importance of project management education and address the need for trained professionals in project management. The objectives of the certificate program include: Provide knowledge of the theoretical and practical concepts of managing IT projects, Understand and be able to perform project management activities, Understand and be able to use project management tools and techniques, Understand the role of project managers in the modern organization, Explore unique and particular challenges resulting from rapid technological change in dynamic business environments, and Exploring the role of the IS business professional in change management A. Admissions Requirements: Same as College and University requirements. The certificate can be pursued concurrently with other graduate programs at the University. Non-degree seeking applicants must submit a brief (1-2 pages) statement that describes educational and work experiences in business, including their background in project management. GMAT and GRE scores are not required. However, acceptance into the certificate program is not an implied acceptance into any master’s degree program. B. Program Requirements: The following 4 courses must be satisfactorily completed for a total of 12 hours of credit. One course from this group: MIS 7605 – Business Database Systems COMP 7115 – Database Systems One course from this group: MIS 7610 – Systems Analysis and Design COMP 7012/8012 - Foundations of Software Engineering Both courses below: MIS 7671 – Project and Change Management MIS 7672 – Advanced Project Management C. Graduation Requirements: The student must complete all 4 required courses with an average grade of B (3.0) or higher, for a total of 12 credit hours. In the semester of graduation, the student must submit an Apply to Graduate form to the Graduate School and a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the College Director of Graduate Studies by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/10/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .