#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/news/archive_flash/2015apr/
April 2015 Issue - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Home FCBE News The University of Memphis Fogelman College of Business and Economics Named To The Princeton Review's 2015 List, "Top 25 Online MBA Programs" The University of Memphis Fogelman College of Business and Economics has earned a spot on The Princeton Review's list of Top 25 online MBA programs for 2015. Some of the other schools that were featured on this list include the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Indiana University, Arizona State University, University of Florida, Auburn University, and more. The list is the first ranking of The Princeton Review's online MBA programs. The results are based on both surveys of administrators at the schools and of students enrolled in the schools' online MBAs. Read more &gt;&gt; Fogelman College Places Top Five in the TVA Challenge for Second Year in a Row For the second consecutive year, Dr. Steven Jordan guided a team of FCBE students into the top five in the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) Investment Challenge. The team beat out Vanderbilt, University of Tennessee—Knoxville, and the University of Mississippi. FCBE will receive a performance bonus for the team's great efforts. The students outperformed the challenge's S&amp;P500 benchmark by 2.58 percent. Read more &gt;&gt; FCBE Students Place First in Prelims of Global Research Challenge A team of Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics students placed first in the local Mid-South round of the CFA Institute's Global Investment Research Challenge (Global IRC). The team was led and coached by Nap Overton, instructor of Finance, Real Estate, &amp; Insurance. Winning team members included Robert Cowan III, Matthew Buxton, Connor Whitney, and Aashish Goyal. The team, which beat five other universities including the University of Arkansas – Little Rock, Harding University, Milsaps, Rhodes College, and the University of Mississippi, advanced to the national competition in Atlanta, GA in April. If the team continues to succeed, they have the opportunity to compete in the global finale. Read more &gt;&gt; Dr. Douglas Campbell Receives His Fourth Distinguished Teaching Award This Year Dr. Douglas Campbell, instructor of Economics, was one of two recipients awarded the University-wide 2015 Thomas W. Briggs Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching Award. This is the fourth prestigious award that Dr. Campbell has received for his excellent teaching skills this year. He was also recently the recipient of the Honor's Program's Excellence in Teaching Award and the televised SPARK Award that celebrates individuals who are igniting change and making a difference in the community. Additionally, he was selected as Alpha Delta Pi's Professor of the Year award. Read more &gt;&gt; Economics PhD Students Make Clean Sweep at the Graduate Student Research Forum FCBE Ph.D. Economics students received the first and second place awards at the annual Student Research Forum. Jobu Babin, was awarded 1st Place for his research and presentation of his paper "Mostly Cloudy with a Chance of Flu: Influenza Trends and their Bearing on Stock Market Behavior." Kayhan Koleyni took 2nd place with his paper and performance of "Financial Crisis and Economic Interdependence: Mexico and the USA." "We are extremely proud of both students' efforts. These awards reflect not only the high-caliber of their research, but also the top-quality economics program offered at Fogelman College," said Dr. Bill Smith, chair of the Economics Department. Read more &gt;&gt; News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .