#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/Univ_college/religious_studies.php
Religious Studies - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Religious Studies Religious Studies The Concentration in Religious Studies is designed for students with a diversity of backgrounds and interests in religion. Students who are enrolled in the concentration may be considering employment in fields where a knowledge of different religious traditions would be an asset, such as counseling or social work, or they may be contemplating further study of religion in a theological seminary or religious studies graduate program. Religious Studies is a traditional liberal arts field that helps students to develop skills in critical thinking, the analysis of complex issues, and oral and written expression. A. General Education (35-41 hours) See Graduation from the University for the University General Education Program requirements. Students who have completed one year of American History in high school are exempted from the six credit-hour History General Education Program requirement; otherwise, students will have to meet the History requirement. Students concentrating in Religious Studies may want to take ANTH 1200 and SOCI 1010 to fulfill the general education Social Science requirement. B. Coordinated Study (36 hours) Religious Studies Core (12 hours) RLGN 1100 Introduction to Religion RLGN 3100 Perspectives on Religion UNIV 3580 Hebrew and Greek Legacy UNIV 3581 Faith, Reason, and Imagination Religious Context Courses (Choose 8 courses from the following for 24 hours) AAAS 4251 African Religions in the Diaspora ANTH4253 Anthropology of Religion ENGL 4461 Bible as Literature HIST 3275 History of Jewish People JDST3601 Judaism JDST 3661 Old Testament JDST4511 Holocaust Studies JDST 4841 Biblical Archaeology PHIL3701 Human and Divine PHIL3702 Philosophy of Religion PHIL 3721 Chinese Philosophy POLS 3102 Religion &amp; Politics SOCI 3860 Sociology of Religion UNIV3565 Comparative Christianity UNIV 3711 Critical Themes in the Old Testament UNIV 3712 New Testament C. College Requirements (9 hours) Thematic Studies (6 hours) Students complete a total of 6 hours of University College thematic studies course(s). Must be from courses not in the core. Senior Project (3 hours) UNIV 4995 Senior Project The senior project is a student's culminating experience or capstone designed to synthesize and integrate the content of a student's program of study. The senior project is intended to fuse together the two or more academic areas that comprise the coordinated study (major) into an academically-relevant example of scholarship. The Senior Project is completed during a student's final semester. D. Electives (29-34 hours) may be chosen to bring the total number of hours to 120 with a minimum of 42 upper-division hours. Many upper-division (3000/4000-level) courses have prerequisites that must be met prior to being permitted to register for those courses. Students are responsible for knowing and satisfying all course prerequisites. Please view course descriptions at: Experiential Learning Credit Opportunities Students seeking degrees in University College may be granted credit for college level knowledge and understanding related to the student's major area of study and gained from work experience, life experience, or non-college instruction. The student who wants an assessment of such learning prepares a portfolio that describes and documents the learning. Portfolios are assessed by faculty who teach in that area. Assessment by portfolio is reserved for knowledge and competencies which do not readily fit into the credit by examination procedures. More detailed information about procedures may be obtained from the advisor. College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .