#http://www.memphis.edu/sph/programs/sbsadmissions.php
SBS PhD Admissions - SPH - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Public Health About Programs People Students &amp; Alumni News Programs MHA Admissions Apply Now Competencies Day One Internship Handbook Mission, Vision and Values Newsletter Program Requirements MPH Admissions Apply Now Competencies Handbook Practicum Program Requirements Epi PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook HSP PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook SBS PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook Population Health Certificate Interpreter Course Interpreter Course Information Interpreter Course Requirements Interpreter Course Registration &amp; Payment Home SPH Programs SBS PhD Admissions SBS PhD Admissions The Social and Behavioral Sciences (SBS) doctoral program is based on the principle that health and health behavior are influenced by multiple psychological, behavioral, social, and cultural factors. It is targeted for master's prepared students who desire advanced training in the social and behavioral theories and methods used in public health. As a metropolitan research university, we are especially committed to health equity and social justice among urban populations. This program is designed for those who intend to teach and conduct original research utilizing rigorous scientific theories and methods to understand and influence the social and behavioral determinants of population health risk factors and outcomes. Graduates of the program are prepared to conduct innovative, interdisciplinary, and translational research in community settings with an emphasis on vulnerable populations, and to design, implement, administer, and evaluate public health interventions and policies. The program emphasizes urban health and health disparity issues in Tennessee and the Mid-South region. A research-based master's degree in a health-related or social/behavioral field is required for admission. Applicants with a professional master's degree (e.g., MPH) will only be considered for admission if they have appropriate research experience, such as having completed a master's thesis or having work experience in a professional research position. Applicants must demonstrate potential for further study by having maintained an average GPA of 3.0 or higher in their master's level coursework, and a competitive score on the Graduate Record Examination (GRE). Other professional school standardized test scores (MCAT, DAT, GMAT or LSAT) may be substituted for the GRE by applicants who are working toward or who have already earned post-baccalaureate degree in medicine, dentistry, management or law. Application materials will be reviewed by the faculty admissions committee. Admissions decisions are based on the overall quality of the applicant's scholarship and academic abilities as demonstrated by GPA, standardized test score(s), undergraduate and graduate completed coursework, research experience and recommendation letters, as well as alignment of the applicant's research interests and career goals with those of the program. Consideration is given to the following in determining admissions to a professional degree program: • Average grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher on a four-point scale for master's level coursework • A recent (within 5 years) GRE total score (verbal, quantitative and analytical writing combined) • Applicants already holding a doctoral degree or professional equivalent obtained in the US may be exempt from the GRE requirement; other standardized test scores (MCAT, DAT, GMAT, or LSAT) may be substituted for the GRE by applicants who are working toward or have completed a post-baccalaureate degree • Three letters of recommendation • Applicant's written statement of purpose (750-1000 words) of interests and career goals • Applicants whose native language is not English are expected to have a score of 96 or higher on the Test for English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) application deadline Rolling admission Priority consideration for applications received by February 1 Questions about the SBS PhD Program? Satish Kedia, PhD, Professor and Coordinator Social and Behavioral Sciences Doctoral Program 901.678.1433 skkedia@memphis.edu Programs MHA Admissions Apply Now Competencies Day One Internship Handbook Mission, Vision and Values Newsletter Program Requirements MPH Admissions Apply Now Competencies Handbook Practicum Program Requirements Epi PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook HSP PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook SBS PhD Admissions Apply Now Competencies Curriculum Handbook Population Health Certificate Interpreter Course Interpreter Course Information Interpreter Course Requirements Interpreter Course Registration &amp; Payment Apply Now Contact Us Support SPH Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .