#http://www.memphis.edu/shs/programs/clinical_nutrition.php
Clinical Nutrition - SHS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Health Studies About Programs Students Faculty Research Centers News Contact SHS Programs Undergraduate Dietetics Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Graduate Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Nutrition Science Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Commerce Home SHS Programs Clinical Nutrition Clinical Nutrition (MS) MS Degree Admissions &amp; Application Checklist Preceptors Careers &amp; Information for Interns Student Testimonials, Awards and Honors On the 1st Monday following January 1st every year there is an Open House for the Clinical Nutrition program. Please contact Dr. Ruth Williams-Hooker . The University of Memphis Clinical Nutrition Master’s Program /Dietetic Internship and Residency is an intensive curriculum lasting 16 months. The program begins in mid-August of one year and continues with classes and/or supervised practice through the end of the fall semester of the second year. The program is 39 semester hours. The didactic curriculum focuses on preparing interns for clinical rotations. Interns take 13 hours of coursework each of the first two semesters (fall and spring), and may have a 20-hour per week Graduate Assistantships (GA) in a clinical site or management site.The GA pays an hourly stipend which varies by site. The GA waives out of state tuition only for the first three semesters; however, interns must pay in-state tuition.The director attempts to find sufficient GA's for all interns accepted. Once accepted, you would rank your GA preference based on the site and the type of experience being offered. If there are not enough GA sites for all interns, the interns will have to apply to a GA and be accepted. The supervised practice (internship/ rotations) aspect of the program focuses primarily on adult clinical nutrition with several pediatric rotations, community, and management rotations occurring in a variety of health care sites all over Memphis. Thesis/project work begins in the first fall semester and is required for completion of the program. Rotations start in early June and take place over two semesters –one semester in the summer and one in the fall. During these two semesters, interns are in rotations 40 hours per week and meet for classes no more than 4 hours a week. During this time students complete and defend their thesis/project. After completion of the 28 weeks of rotations the interns will have 1200+ hours of supervised practice including a culminating residency experience. They will have been prepared beyond entry level and will receive a verification statement. Interns are then eligible to finish the credentialing process to become an RD. The state of Tennessee also requires that RD's also be licensed, as do most other states. You will be given instructions about licensure before graduation. If an intern is unable to complete the process in 16 months, they will be allowed to continue for 8 more months to complete. To view the University's Academic Calendar, visit the Registrar's webpage; for a timeline of our program click here . Although the actual schedule for rotation dates and facilities change every year, we have several facilities offering the same rotation (e.g. we have 6 renal sites, 2 nutrition support sites). For a typical schedule for supervised practice please click here . The Credentialing Process to Becoming a Registered Dietitian 1. Completion of a minimum of a bachelor’s degree at a US regionally accredited university or college and DPD course work approved the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND). 2. Completion of an ACEND-accredited supervised practice program at a healthcare facility, community agency, or a foodservice corporation, or combined with undergraduate or graduate students. The University of Memphis Clinical Nutrition Master’s Program /Dietetic Internship is an ACEND accredited supervised practice program. 3. Pass a national examination administered by the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR). 4. Complete 75 hours continuing professional educational requirements every 5 years to maintain registration. Program Costs Information about current tuition rates is available on the University of Memphis graduate website. All students who have Graduate Assistantships will have out-of-state tuition waived for 3 semesters. There may be an activity fee and there is a fee for on-line classes. There is one online course during the didactic portion of the program. Internship fees are set at approximately $1,675 per semester for the first 3 semesters a student is at the University of Memphis (total cost $5015). This fee cannot be waived. The internship fee is due at the beginning of each semester for the first three semesters and covers costs involved in administering the internship, as well as ancillary costs associated with completing the academic program. Internship fees will not be refunded and tuition will be refunded based on University of Memphis policy. SHS Programs Undergraduate Dietetics Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Graduate Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Nutrition Science Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Commerce Apply Submit your application today Undergraduate Advising We’re always here to help Graduate Advising Faculty advisors aid in your success Degree Sheets Review the courses you’ll be taking Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/11/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .