#http://blogs.memphis.edu/president/page/2/
The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog | The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog Main menu Skip to content Home About the President The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog Search for: Jul 03 2015 Message to Campus Community Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow July 3, 2015 Dear Campus Community: Events of the past week, both national and local, have raised a number of issues central to the core values of university life, including academic freedom, social justice, race, gender and diversity, among a host of others. At the heart of our mission is a commitment to providing a high-quality comprehensive education for our students, and doing so in a safe environment but also one that challenges our students to explore a diverse range of ideas and beliefs, grow and develop as individuals, and become part of an active and involved citizenry in a democratic society. An exceptional educational experience is one that challenges ideas and encourages creativity, not one that insulates students from the diversity that is our city and nation. Diversity enriches all of our lives. Universities are about ideas, some of which will push traditional boundaries and challenge the status quo. A vibrant university community embraces this reality. It does not seek to silence debate and discussion; rather it encourages and nurtures it. The values of the University of Memphis reflect those we will celebrate in just a few days, including an unwavering commitment to free speech and the inviolate nature of individual rights.  Last year we opened a Veterans Resource Center in recognition of the remarkable sacrifice many have made to protect these rights. As a university community, we will frequently debate issues that spark considerable emotion and passion. Let’s do so in a manner that respects the very values we celebrate on July 4 th .  We are a community dedicated to academic freedom, free speech and social justice. History has taught us that ideas are never to be feared, only the effort to quash them. Our Critical Conversations series will continue this discussion in the fall, targeting many of the issues raised in the past few weeks. I look forward to welcoming you to this debate, one that is not aimed at divisiveness or perpetuating stereotypes, particularly regarding race. I wish you all of you well over the holiday weekend.  I know that I for one will reflect on the meaning of this holiday and the countless sacrifices made by many to protect the very freedoms that are at the heart of our great university. Go Tigers! M. David Rudd President | Distinguished University Professor Leave a comment | Jun 29 2015 UofM Student Experience Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow June 29, 2015 The University of Memphis is committed to student success. We offer a wealth of programs and services to help students thrive both during their time at the UofM and beyond graduation. However, students may not always know where to go to plug into these opportunities. To help ensure an exceptional educational experience for everyone, we are creating the UofM Student Experience. The initiative will connect students with information and access to opportunities like Academic Coaching for Excellence, the TRIO Scholarship program, Finish Line, Degree Pathway and Multicultural Affairs. Today’s students face an array of challenges, with many juggling school and work in an effort to cover the escalating costs of higher education and reduce long-term debt. Central to the mission of the University of Memphis is a firm commitment to access and diversity, alongside an unwavering dedication to delivering an exceptional comprehensive education, one that provides a foundation for lifelong learning. The UofM Student Experience will provide a means to capture the creativity and input of our students, faculty and staff, monitor our progress, test new programs, coordinate cross-college efforts and explore new options, all with the goal of enhancing student success. Steven Mizell has agreed to serve as coordinator of the UofM Student Experience while continuing in his current position in Enrollment Services. We will provide updates on the UofM Student Experience in the coming weeks. Go Tigers! M. David Rudd President Karen Weddle-West Provost Leave a comment | Jun 08 2015 Fundraising Update Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow June 8, 2015 Dear Campus Community: I’m pleased to report that we’re still a few weeks out from the end of the fiscal year, but donations to the U of M through the end of May have surpassed $34 million, a new record.  The highest giving total for the first 11 months on record is $31,879,000.  We will update the total following the close of the fiscal year (June 30 th ). Our current year-to-date total not only represents a record amount, but surpasses last year’s number of $28.5 million by over 19%.  Please join me in recognizing and thanking our great development team, led by Bobby Prince.  Again, we’ll distribute the year’s total sometime in July, but I thought you’d appreciate the good news. Best Regards, M. David Rudd President | Distinguished University Professor Leave a comment | Jun 08 2015 Enrollment Update Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow June 8, 2015 Dear Campus Community: As we begin the summer months, I wanted to provide a brief update on several issues, particularly our efforts on the graduation and enrollment fronts.  Efforts to improve the graduation trajectory of our students are not only showing promise, but proving effective.  The last academic year (2013-2014) was a record year and we are poised to exceed last year’s numbers following summer graduation (2014-2015).  I will share those numbers when they become available. As you can see from the chart below we’re making solid gains.  Our total graduation numbers have increased from 3,999 in 2011-12  to 4,311 in 2013-2014, an increase of 7.8%.  If you look at undergraduate degrees granted, we improved from 2,727 to 2,991, a remarkable 9.6% increase over two years.  As you know, these totals represent far more than can be communicated in a line graph.  The number of lives changed is nothing short of extraordinary.  Thank you for engaging in the important work of helping our students complete their degrees. Over the past few months, we have received several gifts to support the U of M Finish Line Program.  As of this week, 101 students have already completed their degrees through Finish Line, with another 115 expected to graduate in December.  As shared a few weeks ago, our summer initiatives have also been effective, with an increase in summer enrollment for the first time in three years, and a significant increase in the number of first-time freshman taking summer courses at the U of M. I know that many have had questions about the impact of Tennessee Promise, with the expectation that it may well result in a decline in freshman enrollment at TBR universities, coupled with a marked increase in community college numbers.  As of this week, our student orientation numbers exceed those of last year by about 11%.  As you know, last year’s freshman class represented an increase over the previous year of 11.6%.  Given the range of new variables this year (e.g. Tennessee Promise, new private housing options around campus) it’s difficult to be precise in our predictions.  Some of our colleagues are predicting rather sizable declines in freshman numbers.  Given the full range of data available, we are projecting some positive increase in freshman enrollment, with the worst case scenario suggesting flat enrollment (consistent with last year’s numbers).  I’ll keep you updated as more definitive data becomes available.  As we look at overall university enrollment, it is important to keep in mind that, prior to last year, we experienced two years of significant decline in freshman enrollment.  Coupled with the increases in our graduation numbers, it will take several years to grow as an institution. The gains in freshman enrollment will be offset by smaller 3 rd , 4 th , 5 th , and 6 th year classes, secondary to the issues noted. Thank you for your dedication and commitment to the U of M and Memphis.  Go Tigers! M. David Rudd President | Distinguished University Professor Leave a comment | May 18 2015 Update on Summer Initiatives Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow Dear Campus Community: As you know, the U of M has experienced declining summer enrollment for three consecutive years (see graph below).  Analysis revealed that the declines are a function of several variables including, but not limited to, cost, loan capacity, and convenience.  Our summer initiatives have reversed the trend with our first increase in summer enrollment in four years.  As you can see, overall enrollment is up 7%, or a total of 255 students.  It’s important to note these are early numbers. Registration will continue for the first and second sessions over the next several weeks; therefore, the final gains are likely to be more significant.  Perhaps most important though, is the success of our 3 + 3 summer initiative targeting first-time freshman (FTF).  The extant literature clearly indicates that, if FTF enroll in classes during their first summer, their overall retention and graduation numbers improve in the double digit range.  As of this week, we have 267 FTF enrolled in summer classes compared to 205 last year, an increase of 62 students or 30%.  Finally, early orientation numbers for next fall are very promising. As of this week, we have 1,570 students registered for orientation, compared to 1,100 last year (an increase of 470 students or 43%).  Early returns on our summer initiatives and recruitment for next fall are promising. Thank you for all of your hard work and commitment.  Go Tigers! Regards, M. David Rudd President Leave a comment | May 15 2015 May 2015 Commencement Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow Dear Campus Community: One of the most important events in the lives of our students is attendance at their graduation ceremony.  We are pleased to announce that over 1,700 students participated in the commencement exercises on Sunday, May 10, 2015, where their degrees were conferred.  Additionally, it is estimated that over 30,000 family and friends attended the two ceremonies in the FedEx Forum – the largest participation in recent history. Unfortunately not all of the family and friends of our students are able to be physically present for this very important experience in their student’s lives.  The University of Memphis recognizes the challenges that the family and friends of our graduates face, so we live stream the entire ceremony from the Forum to the internet so that it can be watched remotely.  During last Sunday’s events, there were 1,589 viewings of the two ceremonies from locations across the U.S. and from 84 different countries around the globe.  We are proud to be able to offer multiple ways for families and friends to join in the celebration of this very important day in the life of our students. Please join me in congratulating all of our graduates. Go Tigers! M. David Rudd President Leave a comment | May 14 2015 University of Memphis Safety Compared to SEC Schools Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow Dear Campus Community: You’ll find below a graph that illustrates how the University of Memphis (UofM) compares to Southeastern Conference (SEC) schools on index crimes. As you can see, based on the latest statistics available from the FBI, we compare remarkably well.  We moved up two places on this chart from 2012, from 4th to 2nd.  Our rate per 1,000 decreased from 10.4 to 8.0. For comparison, the rate for Vanderbilt University is almost identical to the overall (municipalities, etc.) national average of 30.99 index crimes per 1,000. As we will tell parents during orientation this year, our on-campus index crime rate is only 25% of the national average. Here is the link to the FBI university and college data tables: .   It’s a testament to the careful planning and hard work of many on campus, particularly our Police Services.  Please join me in congratulating them and saying THANK YOU for a job well done. Go Tigers. M. David Rudd President Leave a comment | May 11 2015 The Reason our Border County Legislation Makes a Difference Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow Dear Campus Community: As mentioned in a previous communication, the University of Memphis (U of M) was successful with a new piece of border county legislation during the recent session.  The legislation provides for in-state tuition for students from border counties in Mississippi and Arkansas.  What is most critical about this legislation is that it exempts the U of M from the “penalty” assessed for out-of-state students, approximately $5,400 per student, that is currently deducted from our state formula funding allocation.  Given our unique geographic location, coupled with the demographic trends likely over the coming decade, growth at the U of M is heavily dependent on enrolling students from neighboring states.  Our 250-mile radius program, implemented last year, positioned us well.  The new legislation is essential for our growth in the coming years and is estimated to provide new revenues in the range of $4-$5 million annually.   At the heart of our argument is the premise that approximately 60% of these students will end up residing in the Memphis area, paying taxes and supporting our community in a broad range of ways.  As you can see from the attached saturation map, the majority of our student growth is within the 250 mile radius program range. We’re having a successful recruitment effort this year and are optimistic about the coming academic year.  Our orientation and housing numbers are ahead of last year’s pace and provide a foundation for our optimism. We’re projecting continued growth in our freshman class.  I’ll keep you updated as we have more details in the coming months.  Yesterday’s graduation events were fabulous, with 9,000-10,000 attendees at each event.  Thank you to all involved in the planning and execution of commencement.  I hope your academic year has been a good one.  Thank you for all you do for our students and community. Warm Regards, M. David Rudd President Leave a comment | May 04 2015 Legislative Update Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow Dear Campus Community: As many of you know, it has been a very busy legislative session this year.  Although we will provide more details and depth over the next few months, I wanted to share the following summary with you as soon as possible.  Overall, the session was a good one for higher education and a good one for the University of Memphis (U of M).  Following is a quick summary of issues relevant for our campus:  The Governor fully funded the formula.  The net gain for the U of M is $3.7M, certainly a good outcome.  The Governor has made a firm commitment to higher education.  Given our performance gains, we are well positioned for the coming years.  Funding for a 1.5% salary pool was included in the Governor’s budget. At this time we do not have specifics on how this salary pool will be utilized. More details will follow.  As a reminder, the State of Tennessee only funds 55% of the overall costs, we absorb the remainder.  The U of M was successful with the passing of legislation that exempts us from the penalty for allowing out-of-state tuition to students in border counties in Arkansas and Mississippi.  The estimated net gain for us is $4.3M beginning with the 2016-17 fiscal year.  This is an annual savings to the university, and a very important step for our growth trajectory.  The Tennessee Higher Education Commission (THEC) has established a committee, of which I am a member, to review of the formula. The result of this evaluation may well be the removal of the out-of-state penalty for all universities in the coming year(s).  Given our unique geographic location, removing the penalty from the formula would still be a significant net gain to the University of Memphis, estimated at approximately $3M+ per year.  We are well positioned for out-of-state growth, with or without changes to the THEC formula.  This is very good news for our campus.  We received a special allocation of $2.6M for the Memphis Research Consortium (MRC).  These funds are designated for shared faculty positions with Bioworks and Trimetis.  The MRC will be positioning for a significant funding request in next year’s budget cycle, estimated at $20M.  We have requested a tuition increase of 4%, approximately half of our average increase of 8% over the past 15 years. This increase would fund our portion of the State mandated salary pool, along with providing funds for critically needed, but unfunded, infrastructure.  We received funding for a $3M capital maintenance project for electrical and gas utility upgrades. I hope you find this summary helpful.  In short, we had a very successful session.  We will provide updates in the coming months.  I hope the semester is wrapping up well and look forward to seeing you at Commencement. Warm Regards, M. David Rudd President Leave a comment | Apr 22 2015 Thank You Posted by Jeanine Hornish Rakow Dear Campus Community, First let me say thank you to our faculty, staff and students for a remarkable and memorable investiture.  In particular, I want to thank the committee members for doing such a wonderful job (Ellen Watson, Bobby Prince, Tammy Hedges, Loretta Rudd, Bruce Harber, Jeannie Smith, Don Wagner, Lisa Warmath, Justin Lawhead, Ladonnal Curry, Meta Laabs, Reginald Green, Ricky Kirby, Stephanie Beasley, Wade Jackson, and Jeff Wilson).  We had a great showing from across campus, our City, and the state.  It was indeed special to have Governor Haslam and Chancellor Morgan join us on campus.  I think all would agree that our students, Mary Garcia and Johnnie Holmes, made us all proud.  Several people have asked that I distribute my remarks and, accordingly, you will find the text below.  I wish you all well as we wrap up another academic year, prepare for the summer, and continue the important work of the U of M.  Thank you again for all you do for our University and City. The video of the investiture can be viewed at: Regards, David The Gift of a Great Public University Welcome to all of our distinguished guests today, including faculty, staff, students, leaders in higher education, local and state government officials, alumni, and friends of the University of Memphis.  I am grateful to all of you for taking the time to be with us today, for taking the time to travel great distances, and for recognizing and honoring the University of Memphis and the important role that it plays in our community. I want to thank Governor Haslam for joining us today and for providing extraordinary leadership for the state of Tennessee, for advancing higher education, for recognizing its critical role in economic development and a civil society, and for thinking outside of the box in developing initiatives that expand the access, opportunity, and impact of higher education. Tennessee has not only offered a genuinely innovative approach, but also influenced the national conversation and provided much-needed positive momentum to an issue that had floundered in recent years.  I want to thank Congressman Cohen for joining us today, for taking time out of a busy and demanding schedule, and for his service to Memphis and our nation.  I want to thank Senator Norris, Representative White, Mayor Wharton, Mayor Luttrell and Mayor Gist for their leadership and service to our community, for tackling thorny issues, offering hope and inspiration, and shaping a vision that is moving Memphis, Jackson and Tennessee forward in decisive and exciting fashion.  I want to thank Brad Martin and Sherri Lipman for their great service to our University and City. I want to thank Chancellor Morgan and the Tennessee Board of Regents, and our Board of Visitors for the remarkable investment of time, energy and expertise they make to our great university.  I want to thank our alumni for their support and passion, particularly when it comes to basketball.  I want to thank our faculty and staff (both current and former) for their creativity and inspired commitment to higher education and our community, for providing an unshakable foundation for a proud institution that has served our community for one hundred and three years.  At an occasion like today, it is incumbent upon all of us to recognize the sacrifices made by faculty and staff for over a century at the University of Memphis, as it is the culmination of their efforts that has created the opportunities we enjoy today.  The breadth and depth of contributions from University of Memphis faculty, both in and out of the classroom, help make the world a better place, with not only local impact but global reach.  The soul of any great university is its faculty and staff. I want to thank my family, including Loretta, Nicholas and Emma for not only being here today, but for being there for over three decades, offering support, love and perspective, and for sharing a wonderful life together. Nicholas and Emma frequently remind me not only of the rapid pace of change in today’s world and the need to be get in front of the curve rather than be behind it, but that that the landscape is very different for today’s students, the challenges more complex, the competition stiffer and the consequences more costly. Finally, I want to thank our students, both current and former, for joining us today, for their boundless energy and for serving as a constant source of inspiration through their hard work, dedication and commitment.   Each and every day they evidence the very values that drive our University and strengthen our community.   The greatest privilege I have is to serve our students and share in their life stories, stories that evidence great talent and resilience in the face of adversity and an unbridled optimism that fuels the ability to balance a multitude of competing demands. Our University is a precious thing, a great gift to our community, a great opportunity for our students, and a source of new knowledge, discovery, creativity and artistic expression for our nation.  It is a place of hope, optimism, and transformation.  Whether a freshman transitioning to the U of M directly from high school, or a returning adult learner looking to find a new career pathway, students arrive on our campus with equal amounts of enthusiasm, hope, anxiety and apprehension, but all are looking for one thing&#8212;to be transformed.  I have had the distinct privilege to share in that transformational process, along with many of you.  Let me express my gratitude for the opportunity, my recognition of the importance of our work, and my commitment to expanding our reach and impact. Few would argue against the claim that the past decade has been a difficult one for higher education.  We have juggled issues including escalating costs, higher student debt loads, a rapidly shifting labor market, and the profound impact of technology in pedagogy.  But despite those challenges, the University of Memphis has continued to serve our students and community with great distinction and effectiveness.  The University of Memphis has distinguished itself as not only providing a high quality education for our students, but we have been recognized for impactful research with practical implications and creative contributions that enrich the quality of our lives.  There are countless examples, but we are increasingly recognized for research in health and health sciences, transportation and logistics, biomedical engineering, mathematics, and ground water. Our research changes the lives of citizens and improves our community.  The impact of creative work in the arts and humanities has been recognized nationally and internationally.  Over the last two years I have been amazed by the work of our faculty, encouraged by their entrepreneurial spirit, and grateful for their commitment to our students, University and City.  We have made a genuine commitment to expand and grow our research, scholarly and creative mission, recognizing its importance for our students, community and nation. The work of a great university is never complete, the process of knowledge creation and dissemination unending.  Today’s events provide an opportunity to reflect on our mission and embrace the reality that our work changes lives, our community and our nation.  One of our greatest challenges is to provide our students with a comprehensive education, one that not only prepares them for their chosen careers and a commitment to lifelong learning, but also that we help develop citizens well prepared to engage fully in a democratic society, citizens with the capacity to think critically and embrace innovation, push intellectual and personal boundaries, and citizens that appreciate fully the arts and humanities and their importance in a vibrant and diverse society. Access to and completion of a comprehensive, quality postsecondary degree has become essential to social and economic success today.  As the benefits of a college degree have expanded, disparities and inequities have emerged, not only with respect to access and affordability, but also in retention and completion.  More important than the degree and its economic impact, a college degree has less tangible but equally important impact on individual capacity to reason and analyze, the development of an ethical perspective, collaborative engagement, exposure to diverse opinions, and an appreciation for the arts, all critical to a civil and democratic society.   In short, full and effective civic engagement is facilitated by post-secondary education.  A strong future is undeniably linked to the strength of our public universities, particularly in metropolitan areas.  Current demographics suggest that without purposeful and strategic effort, educational disparities and inequalities will only grow in the coming years, with a ripple effect reaching each and every corner of our nation.  As greater numbers of non-traditional students and returning adult learners make their way to campus, the challenges will continue to grow. The University of Memphis has never been more important, has never been more needed, nor have we every been more well-positioned to succeed.  In the last several years the University of Memphis has made significant progress in closing the gap on retention and graduation for all of our students.  But more important than simply helping students complete their degrees, we must provide them a strong foundation to be successful and help them develop the skills necessary in a rapidly changing world.  We must help our students recognize what is possible in their lives, expand their traditional boundaries, and recognize that embedded in each and every challenge is a great opportunity.  It is universities like Memphis that will move the needle on reducing educational and economic disparities and inequities.  At this moment in history the role of public research universities has never been more important, nor the time for investment more critical. Let me leave you with a strong commitment that the University of Memphis will continue to expand our national footprint, sharing the remarkable things that happen here with the wider world.  Not only are we committed to the public good, we are serving the public good.  What is hidden behind the physical changes underway on campus are the lives changed by our work and research. Thank you for this opportunity and the privilege to lead the University of Memphis.  It is with a shared vision of our future that we will continue the remarkable work of the past century.  The University of Memphis has a very bright future.  Not only can we be part of the national conversation, we can help shape it.  I look forward to working with all of you to expand our reach, transform the lives of our students, create new knowledge, foster discovery, witness the joy of creative expression, and remind our world that diversity enriches all of our lives.  Go Tigers. M. David Rudd President | Distinguished University Professor Leave a comment | Page 2 of 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 Search for: Recent Posts THEC Funding Recommendations for 2016-2017 Doing is Preserving In Memory of U.S. Senator Fred Thompson Tennessee&#8217;s Next National Research University Performance Funding Score Recent Comments Archives November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 February 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 April 2014 Categories Uncategorized Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS blogs.memphis.edu &copy; The University of Memphis President&#039;s Blog - Powered by Edublogs and WPThemes.co.nz Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search