#http://www.memphis.edu/admissions/tcr_instructions.php
Transfer Credit Request Instructions - Admissions - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Admissions Freshmen Transfer Readmit Graduate Law International High School Home Admissions Transfer Credit Request Instructions Transfer Credit Request Instructions Why? Any University of Memphis student considering taking courses at another institution, to satisfy degree requirements, should meet with his/her academic advisor, refer to the Transfer Equivalency Table to see how those courses will transfer back to the University of Memphis, and complete a Transfer Credit Request (TCR) form . For courses not listed on the table, it is the student's obligation to obtain an approved TCR form prior to enrolling in those courses. Without the approved TCR, there is uncertainty whether a course taken will satisfy degree requirements. An approved TCR serves as assurance that the course will transfer and how it will count towards satisfying degree requirements. Transfer Credit Approval For institutions and courses listed on the equivalency table , complete the Transfer Credit Request (TCR) Form Section I only. Meet with your academic advisor to verify that the transfer coursework will satisfy requirements. Complete Section I of the TCR form and SUBMIT to the Office of Admissions via e-mail by clicking on the submit button ( see important submission instructions ) . After the course/s have been graded, request an official transcript from the college/university where the coursework was taken. The transcript must be sent to the University of Memphis, Office of Admissions, 101 Wilder Tower, Memphis, TN, 38152. For institutions and courses not listed on the equivalency table , students should contact the Office of Admissions to find out whether the course/s will transfer to the University of Memphis. After Sections I and II of the TCR have been completed by the office of Admissions: Meet with your academic advisor to verify that the transfer coursework will satisfy requirements and obtain the advisor's signature. Take the form to the graduation analyst of your college for approval. Engineering students must also obtain the approval of the department chair of their major. Return the signed form to the Office of Admissions. After the course/s have been graded, request an official transcript from the college/university where the coursework was taken. This transcript must be sent to the University of Memphis, Office of Admissions, 101 Wilder Tower, Memphis, TN, 38152. Transfer Credit Policy and Residence Requirements Undergraduate students who want to apply courses taken at another college/university must understand the residency requirements to be met in order to graduate with a University of Memphis degree. A student will satisfy residence requirements for graduation by earning at least twenty-five (25) percent of credit hours required for the degree at the University of Memphis. At least thirty (30) of the final sixty (60) hours required for the degree must be completed at the University of Memphis. A student transferring credits from a two-year college or institution must complete, as a requirement for the baccalaureate degree, a minimum of (60) sixty semester hours in an accredited senior (four-year) institution. A transfer course completed at another institution can be considered for credit if it meets all of the following conditions: It is completed at a regionally accredited institution It is substantially similar to the University of Memphis course Credits from institutions on the quarter hour system will be converted to semester hours using the formula of one quarter equals two-thirds of a semester hour. The maximum credit hour load allowed for any term includes all course enrollments both at the University of Memphis and at other institutions. Review the policy for credit hour load at: . General Education Requirements The University General Education Program promotes a shared core learning experience for all undergraduate students at the University of Memphis and provides a framework upon which the college major can build. A complete listing of the courses fulfilling general education requirements for community colleges and universities is available on the TBR web site under Transfer and Articulation Information. Meet Your Counselor Meet the counselor assigned to assist you. Request Information Sign up as a True Blue Tiger. Visit the Campus Sign up for your own tour of the University of Memphis. Upcoming Events Learn what it means to be a Tiger! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .