#http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/research/childhood_study_group.php
Childhood Study Group - CEPR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Counseling, Educational Psychology &amp; Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Ed Psych &amp; Research Faculty Research Home CEPR Research Childhood Study Group Childhood Study Group meetings (fall and spring semesters) Fridays 3:30 pm - 5:00 pm Ball Hall (assigned room) faculty members Yeh Hsueh Denise Winsor doctoral students Beijia Tan Jan Kidder Mahbubul Hasan Jun Hao Hui Zhang visiting scholars Lijiao Du Xiangping Wu who we are The Childhood Study Group (CSG) is a group of faculty, doctoral students, and visiting scholars who are interested in researching young children and developing independent research. The members of the group conduct research nationally and internationally. We are dedicated to exploring quality research and developing skills for conducting and understanding the psychological, social, and emotional development in structured and unstructured learning environments. The Childhood Study Group is co-directed by Dr. Yeh Hsueh and Dr. Denise Winsor in the Educational Psychology program at the University of Memphis. goals to create a research community to exchange ideas and develop research projects in the field of childhood development and learning, family practice, parenting and early education in various contexts to provide personalized, hands-on graduate level research training from ideas to design, from research questions to data collection, from research writing to conference presentation to provide special research acculturation for all the international students with the support of everyone including the US students and faculty members. The group activities during 2015-2016 academic year are divided by the two semesters. Fall 2014 Focus Journal article review: One student suggested two articles that are related to his or her research to share with the group for an in-depth discussion Students' presentations of a segment of their current research writing to get feedback Practicing English speech skills in preparation for national and international conference presentations Spring 2015 Focus on Research Writing Each student brings in 4-6 pages of current manuscript, proposal, or conference presentation draft for the group members to review. The group will deliberate on the merit and needs for improvement as a "committee" while the writer "sits in" to listen. In the end, the writer will raise questions or respond to the group comments. The outcome from these activities consists of almost all national or international conference presentations. Half of the group members have one or two manuscripts in preparation. Partial reference list of the conference presentations that group members made or will make. Part of each presentation was presented, reviewed and/or discussed in the group meetings. Cheng, M. &amp; Hsueh, Y. (2015, June). Chinese young children's liking of Big Bird Looks at the World. Presented at the symposium on "Education media from young children's perspectives." Jean Piaget Society annual conference, Toronto, Canada. Cheng, M. X., Hsueh, Y., Zhang, H., Zhou, Z. K., Sun, X. J., Tian, Y. (2014). Chinese parents and emergent science literacy of preschoolers. Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of Jean Piaget Society: Symposium 5: Parenting preschoolers in changing societies. San Francisco, CA. Cheng, M., Zhang, F., Fan, C., You, Z., &amp; Zhou, Z. (2014, May). Friends of friends matter:friendship, proximity prestige, and loneliness in Chinese children. In S. Audley-Piotrowski (Chair), Moving beyond friendship quality: Novel concepts for understanding friendship in middle childhood. Symposium conducted at the 44th Jean Piaget Annual Conference, San Francisco, CA. Du, L., Bian, X., Hsueh, Y., Zhang, H. &amp; Tan, B. (2015, June). Chinese preschool teachers' roles in teaching children at the art center. Presented at the symposium on "Emotion: Cultural, social, gender, and linguistic influences." Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of Jean Piaget Society. Toronto, Canada. Hao, J. (June, 2015). The effect of safety education programs on young children's evaluation of risk-taking behavior and their safety knowledge. In Symposium: Education media from young children's perspectives. Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of Jean Piaget Society. Toronto, Canada. Hao, J., Zhang, H., &amp; Hsueh, Y. (2014). In the eyes of Chinese parents and preschoolers: Unintentional injury and risky behaviors. Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of Jean Piaget Society: Symposium 5: Parenting preschoolers in changing societies. San Francisco, CA. Hasan, M. &amp; Winsor, D. L. (2015, April). Exploring the epistemological foundation of think-pair-share with iPad math application in kindergarten. 27th Annual University of Memphis Graduate Student Research Forum. Memphis, TN. Hsueh, Y., Hao, J., &amp; Cheng, M. (2015, June). Chinese preschoolers' preferences for the images of Sesame Street's Muppets. Presented at the symposium on "Education media from young children's perspectives." Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of Jean Piaget Society. Toronto, Canada. Kidder, J. E. (2015, June). "I Want to Tell You This:" Bilingual Immigrants' Stories of Love, Longing, and Hope. In J. E. Kidder (Chair), Emotion: Cultural, social, gender, and linguistic influences. Symposium conducted at the 45th Annual Meeting of the Jean Piaget Society, Toronto, Canada. Kidder, J. E. (2014, June). Home language/school culture: Immigrant parents and their bilingual preschoolers. In Y. Hsueh (Chair), Parenting preschoolers in changing societies. Symposium conducted at the 44th Annual Meeting of the Jean Piaget Society, San Francisco, CA. Stapleton, C. M., Zhang, H., Cohen, R., &amp; Hsueh, Y. (2015, June). Gender effects in peer nominations of shame, guilt, and pride among Chinese elementary school students. Presented at the symposium on "Emotion: Cultural, social, gender, and linguistic influences." Paper presented at the Jean Piaget Society annual conference, Toronto, Canada. Stapleton, C. M., Zhang, H., &amp; Hsueh, Y., &amp; Cohen, R. (2015, March). Poster Title: The Virtue Enhancing and Vice Suppressing Function of Modesty Among Chinese Children. SRCD Biennial Meeting, Pennsylvania, PA. Tan, B., Zhang, H., Du, L., Stapleton, M., Hsueh, Y., &amp; Cohen, R. (2015, June). Gender differences in emotion expression in children's drawings. In H. Zhang (Chair), Children's unprompted drawings. Symposium to be conducted at the 45th Jean Piaget Society Annual Conference, Toronto, Canada. Zhang, H. (2015, June). Social Outcomes of Emotion Inhibition: The Roles of Culture and Gender. In Kidder, J. Emotion: Cultural, Social, Gender, and Linguistic Influences. Symposium to be presented at the Annual Conference of the Jean Piaget Society, Toronto, Canada. Zhang, H., Stapleton, C. M., Hsueh, Y., &amp; Cohen, R. (2015, June). Children's unprompted drawings of the human figure. Presented at the symposium on "Emotion: Cultural, social, gender, and linguistic influences." Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of Jean Piaget Society, Toronto, Canada. Zhang, H., Stapleton, C. M., Hsueh, Y., &amp; Cohen, R. (2015, March). Poster Title: Emotion Management for Chinese Children: Mothers, Peers and Gender Effects. SRCD Biennial Meeting. Pennsylvania, PA. Zhang, H., Stapleton, C. M., Hsueh, Y., &amp; Cohen, R. (2014). The concept of zi-zun-xin and Its association with friendships in Chinese children. Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of Jean Piaget Society. Symposium 23: Confusion, complexity and neglect: Studying imitation in infancy. San Francisco, CA Admissions Current Students Student Organizations Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .