#http://www.memphis.edu/tentcity/movement/
About Tent City - Tent City: Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Tent City: Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee The Movement People Issues Organizing Resources The Movement About Tent City Historical Overview Timeline Overview Fayette County Timeline 1949 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966 1969 1970 National Civil Rights Timeline 1948 1952 1954 1955 1957 1960 1962 1963 1964 1965 1967 1968 Share Your Story Home Tent City: Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee The Movement About the Fayette County Movement " I learned to stand up for what is right for people. And what is right for minority people is right for non-minority people... " 듔iola McFerren, Fayette County Activist Mary Williams Talks about Registering and Eviction in Fayette County, Tennessee 2002 Documentary Project on Fayette County, TN: Special Collections, University of Memphis Libraries Why is Tent City important as a Civil Rights Era Event? The Tent City movement in Fayette County is significant for a number of reasons: First, it was a truly grassroots movement 들nitiated, organized, and maintained by black residents in the local community. Outside help from regional sympathizers, college activists, and the federal government certainly came in and helped the Fayette County participants to keep the movement going, but the leaders and long-term participants were locals. Second, unlike many more widely known civil rights events, Tent City was a rural movement whose participants made their living from the land듨ost of the African American population worked for white landowners as sharecroppers . This meant the civil rights movement in Fayette County was primarily an effort of the poor. This can be better appreciated if we note that the middle-class, more educated blacks등ho had more resources to start a movement등ere few and mostly found in urban areas. At the time, most blacks in the rural South were poor and under-educated and, therefore, many of the movements during the Civil Rights Era were initiated by white sympathizers who came to the South to recruit and organize black activists. Finally, Fayette County드s well as adjacent Haywood County등as politically promising because they were the only two of 96 Tennessee counties in which blacks outnumbered whites. This made political change at a significant scale possible if black citizens could vote. Also, being located in the southwestern part of the state and adjacent to the Mississippi state line , Fayette County was in a strategic position for extending efforts into Mississippi, which had garnered much of the national attention concerning civil rights violations and violence. Map of Tennessee highlighting Fayette (blue) and Haywood (green) counties. Image adapted from work by JusBer 88 on Wikimedia. No website can do justice to the nuanced historical, social, political and personal factors forming the perfect storm that hit Fayette County, Tennessee, in the summer of 1959. From this maelstrom, African American residents were among the first in the rural South to begin their struggle for civil rights. Although major progress was made during the modern civil rights era, the struggle for equality continues today. While many people collectively worked for social justice in Fayette County, it is impossible to individually acknowledge all who risked their lives, livelihoods, and homes to break out of the second-class roles they were forced into from the days of slavery. Although some people involved in the national Civil Rights Movement attained high public profiles, becoming recognized icons for change, most would acknowledge that the strengths they may have wielded were founded upon the collective efforts of many unnamed individuals whose contributions may never be known. As with other movements, this holds true for the efforts in Fayette County. Though we cannot begin to tell (or even find) every individual's story from this era, we want to include as broad a variety of perspectives as possible; this site provides a venue in which Fayette County residents and other participants in the movement can describe their experiences of these events. But we are also interested in the relationship between history and the present. How do experiences from the 1950s, 60s, and 70s affect people's feelings, hopes, or concerns about Fayette County today? What do these stories mean to young people who are just learning about the county's past? Why is Tent City important to know about now and into the future? Additionally, we believe the stories and discussions gathered here may have meaning to people far beyond Fayette County. The struggle for justice is not unique to this region and here, as elsewhere, it highlighted deep divisions within the community while forcing everyone who lived in the area to think about what change might mean for their society and for themselves as individuals. We want to understand how people live and work in a shared locale during periods of social upheaval, or how they negotiate contemporary conflict while planning for a still uncertain future. Today, Fayette County faces new kinds of change, including the impact of growth from nearby Memphis. What does Fayette County's history mean to newer residents등hether they have moved there recently or are young people born locally드nd how might broader recognition of that past shape the county today? We think the stories of Fayette County offer a special opportunity to understand how communities can overcome difficult pasts and remind us that these human rights issues continue and remain urgent in national and global discussions. Minnie Jameson on Getting Started and Making a Difference 2002 Documentary Project on Fayette County, TN: Special Collections, University of Memphis Libraries The Movement About Tent City Historical Overview Timeline Overview Fayette County Timeline 1949 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966 1969 1970 National Civil Rights Timeline 1948 1952 1954 1955 1957 1960 1962 1963 1964 1965 1967 1968 Share Your Story Share Your Story Do You Have a Story to Share? We would Like to Hear from You Moving out of Shacks and into Tents Sharecroppers were forced out of their homes and into tents Civil Rights in the 21st Century How do experiences from the 1960s affect people's feelings, hopes, or concerns about Fayette County today? Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change Teaching, Studying, and Promoting Civil Rights and Social Change Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/13/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .