#http://www.memphis.edu/ugcatalog/collegeprog/cas/class_studies.php
Classical Studies Minor - UGCatalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Undergraduate Catalog About Admissions College/Degree Programs Planning Faculty/Staff Archives College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Home UGCatalog College Programs Classical Studies Minor Classical Studies Minor Interdisciplinary Studies Office Classical Studies Minor Those who value education because they value the ability to think clearly and express ideas powerfully, often choose the liberal arts. The Classical Studies Minor is proposed to expose students to the very foundation of the liberal arts and "Western Tradition." A minor in Classical Studies can serve as a prestigious and powerful springborad for professional careers in areas such as law, journalism, medicine, and business. Those who are interested in the beauty and study of antiquitiy may also pursue careers in teaching, academics, or museum work. The Classical Studies minor is comprised of courses which span different departments and colleges. Minor Requirements : A total of 18 hours as follows: Core: 9 hours from the following with no more than 2 courses from any one subjec area: LATN 1010 - Elementary Latin I (3) LATN 1020 - Elementary Latin II (3) LATN 2010 - Intermediate Latin I (3) LATN 2020 - Intermediate Latin II (3) GREK 1010 - Elementary Greek I (3) GREK 1020 - Elementary Greek II (3) GREK 2010 - Intermediate Greek I (3) GREK 2020 - Intermediate Greek II (3) CLAS 2481 - Mythology (3) POLS 1101 - Intro to Ancient Political Thought (3) Elective Courses: 9 hours from the following with no more than 2 courses from any one subjec area: ARTH 4111 - Art/Archaeology of Egypt (3) ARTH 4112 - Egypt Art - Old Kingdom (3) ARTH 4113 - Egypt Art - New Kingdom (3) ARTH 4121 - Ancient Art Near East (3) ARTH 4123 - Greek Art (3) ARTH 4124 - Roman Art (3) ARTH 4125 - Art/Archaeology Pompeii (3) ARTH 4129 - Ancient/Medieval Architecture (3) CLAS 3021 - Medical Terminology (3) CLAS 3412 - Roman Culture (3) CLAS 3413 - Greek Lit in Translation (3) CLAS 3414 - Roman Lit in Translation (3) CLAS 4000 - Capital Punishment in the Ancient World (3) CLAS 4001 - Science and Engineering in Classical Antiquity (3) CLAS 4780 - Individual Study Classics (1-3) CLAS 4791 - Studies in Classics (1-3) ENGL 4461 - The Bible as Literature Art (3) HIST 3320 - Ancient World (3) HIST 4320 - Ancient Near East (3) HIST 4321 - Greek Experience (3) HIST 4322 - The Roman World (3) HIST 4323 - Egypt of the Pharaohs (3) HIST 4361 - History of Byzantine Empire (3) PHIL 3001 - Foundations of West Phil/Classical Period (3) PHIL 4211- Ancient Philosophy (3) POLS 3401 - Legal/Pol Thought Classical (3) College Programs College of Arts and Sciences Fogelman College of Business and Economics College of Communication and Fine Arts College of Education School of Health Studies Herff College of Engineering School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Loewenberg School of Nursing University College Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management Independent Programs Campus Directory Need to contact a certain department? Services to Students The University of Memphis has multiple services that they provide for students. Calendar 2015-2016 The University of Memphis Academic Calendar Academic Regulations You have a right! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .