#http://umwa.memphis.edu/umpolicies//UM1788.htm
UM1788 - Limited English Proficiency - The University of Memphis The University of Memphis Limited English Proficiency POLICIES draft Issued:&nbsp October 26, 2015 Responsible Official:&nbsp President Responsible Office:&nbsp Office of Institutional Equity Policy Statement Policy Statement The University of Memphis is committed to complying with its obligation under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to take reasonable steps to provide meaningful access to persons with Limited English Proficiency. Purpose &nbsp The purpose of this policy to ensure that the University community understands its obligations under Title VI to take reasonable steps to ensure that individuals with Limited English Proficiency (LEP) have meaningful access and an equal opportunity to participate in University services, activities, programs and other benefits. Definitions Individual with Limited English Proficiency A person who does not speak English as their primary language and who has a limited ability to read, write, speak or understand English Identifying LEP Individuals Posting : The University of Memphis will post notice of the availability of interpretation or translation services free of charge in languages LEP persons would understand in appropriate offices and locations throughout the University. At a minimum, notices and signs will be posted and provided in high traffic areas for those accessing University services, activities and programs. In-Person Identification University faculty and staff are responsible for promptly identifying the language and communication needs of the LEP person. If necessary, faculty and staff will use a language identification card (or &ldquo;I speak cards,&rdquo; available online at ) to determine the language. In addition, when records are kept of past interactions with LEP persons or family members, the language used to communicate with the LEP person will be included as part of the record. Language Assistance Measures The University of Memphis will strive to offer the following measures Take reasonable steps to provide the opportunity for meaningful access to LEP clients who have difficulty communicating English. Provide the following resources to accommodate LEP persons In-person Volunteer interpreters within a reasonable time period Language interpretation through a telephone interpretation service when in-person interpreters are unavailable. Translate documentation into Spanish, as appropriate. Compile a list of resource for other language written translation services. Obtaining a Qualified Interpreter The Office for Institutional Equity will maintain an accurate and current list showing the name, language, phone number and hours of availability of bilingual staff or volunteer. When the need for an interpreter is identified, OIE will facilitate contact with the appropriate bilingual staff member to interpret. In the event an internal interpreter is unavailable, OIE will facilitate access to an external qualified interpreter service. Translation of Written Materials When translation of vital documents is needed, the relevant department will submit documents for translation into frequently-encountered languages to the Office for Institutional Equity. Each department is responsible for evaluating the necessity of translation of vital documents into additional languages by reviewing its interaction with LEP over time. Monitoring The University of Memphis will perform an annual review of its provision of access to those individuals with limited English proficiency. The review process shall include: the number of documented LEP person contacts encountered annually; how the needs of LEP persons have been addressed; determination of the current LEP population in the service area; determination as to whether the need for translation services has changed; determination as to whether local language assistance programs have been effective; and determination as to whether complaints have been received concerning the agency&rsquo;s failure to meet the needs of LEP individuals. Revision Dates &nbsp UM1788 - October 26, 2015 Subject Areas: Academic Finance General Human Resources Information Technology Research Student Affairs &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp &nbsp