#http://www.memphis.edu/economics/faculty/aokunade.php
ALBERT OKUNADE - ECON - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College - Department of Economics Welcome Programs Faculty Research News FCBE About Programs Faculty Research News Home ECON Faculty ALBERT OKUNADE ALBERT OKUNADE Professor, Department of Economics Phone 901.678.2672 Email aokunade@memphis.edu Fax 901.678.2685 Office BA 450 Office Hours 11:15a - 12:30p (T); 5:00p -6.30p (R); and by appts. Website Biography Dr. Albert Adelowo Okunade is a 2011--2014 Suzanne Downs-Palmer Professor of Economics and Coordinator of the Ph. D . (Business Administration) Economics Program, in The Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics (FCBE), at the University of Memphis. He earned his 1986 Ph.D . Economics degree at (The Sam M. Walton College of Business) University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, after earning his MS Economics, MBA and BS degrees at Wright State University, Dayton, Ohio. He served a faculty sabbatical in residence at Harvard University, MA. The Review of Black Political Economy nationally ranked his published research frequency and quality, measured as publications in peer-review economics journals that are indexed in the Journal of Economic Literature , in the ‘TOP 3’ among all Black economists who earned their Ph. D. degrees at US academic institutions since 1969. Professor Okunade is the inaugural FCBE faculty to receive the University Provost’s First Tennessee Professorship Award (2007-2010), and also the first FCBE faculty to receive the Palmer Research Professorship Award (2002). He received the University’s Distinguished Research Award in Social Sciences &amp; Business (2001), and twice (1995, 1992) received the SPUR ( Superior Performance in University Research ) Award . He is 1st and 2nd Place recipients of several annual (competitive) “ Best Peer-Refereed Journal Paper Awards ” in The FCBE. Professor Okunade’s teaching excellence signals include finalist (2009, 2008, 2007, &amp; 1993) and semi-finalist (1991, 1992 &amp; 1997) for the University’s Distinguished Teaching Award , and he is the inaugural FCBE faculty recipient of the ‘ Teaching and Research Mentoring Award for Engaged Creative Teaching Excellence , Graduate (2011-12). Professor Okunade’s other professional honors and awards at the University of Memphis include (but not limited to) University Honors Program Teaching Fellowship, University College Mentoring Award , and the African &amp; African American Studies (AAAS) Students Mentoring Award (College of Arts &amp; Sciences) He has also received significant external recognitions and awards, including but not limited to the Sam M. Walton Free Enterprise Fellowship (2004), from The Jack Shewmaker SIFE World Headquarters, Springfield, MO), the SHAZAM Econometrics Hall of Fame Award , from (Economics Department) at University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada, and the Outstanding Service Award for Meritorious Service as a Founding Board of Trustees Member , from The American Society of Health Economists (2008). Professor Okunade conducts applied econometrics research broadly in healthcare economics, finance and public health policy, labor economics, industrial organization, non-profit higher education financing, and applied microeconomics in general. He is faculty affiliates of the Center for Community Health (School of Public Health), Center for Healthcare Economics, and the African &amp; African American Studies (AAAS, interdisciplinary) Program (College of Arts &amp; Sciences) at the university. He teaches graduate MA/Ph.D. Economics courses in Decision Economics, Applied Healthcare Economics, MBA Economics for Global Executives, and undergraduate Managerial (Organizational) Economics, Economic Forecasting, and Microeconomics Principles (Honors). He has Chaired and served as members of several Honors and MA Theses and Ph.D. Dissertation Committees. Recently (May, 2012) he was appointed lead faculty for the University’s Executive MBA Program students on Study Abroad travels to foreign multinational corporations and government offices in Brazil , Argentina , and Chile . He received the “Dean’s Service Award ” in 2010. Albert has received several funded research grants (internal university and from private, non-profit and public sector entities including public electric utilities), authored over 100 articles in encyclopedia, book/book chapters, …, and a number of the leading (and highly ranked) peer-refereed journals including (but not limited to) Journal of Applied Econometrics, Economics Letters (multiple) , Journal of Health Economics, Review of Quantitative Finance &amp; Accounting, Journal of Productivity Analysis, The American Statistician , Health Economics (multiple), Quarterly Review of Economics &amp; Finance, Applied Economics (multiple), Journal of Labor Research, Small Business Economics: An Entrepreneurial Journal (multiple), American Journal of Economics &amp; Sociology (multiple) , Social Science &amp; Medicine , Journal of Health Care Finance (multiple) , Journal of Health &amp; Social Policy , Health Policy , Health Care Management Science (multiple), Ageing International, Managed Care Quarterly, Journal of Education Finance. He has presented over 50 conference papers in the US and globally, e.g., Canada , China , Denmark , Finland , France , Portugal , Senegal , UK , etc., Citations to Dr. Okunade’s work numbering in several hundreds, are in leading and prestigious journals , e.g ., Journal of Finance &amp; Quantitative Analysis ( JFQA ), Journal of Applied Econometrics, NBER Papers, Marketing Science, Economic Modeling , Journal of Health Economics, Handbook of Health Economics ( multiple publishers ) , The Annals of Regional Science, Health Economics, Journal of Product Innovation Management, New England Journal of Medicine , Health Economics Policy &amp; Law, International Journal of Technology Assessment in Health Care, Southern Economic Journal, Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Applied Economics, Health Affairs, Annals of Internal Medicine, Journal of Higher Education, International Journal of Health Care Finance &amp; Economics, Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice , American Journal of Medicine, Pharmacoeconomics &amp; Outcomes Research, Expert Reviews of Pharmacoeconomics &amp; Outcomes Research , Health Policy &amp; Planning, Mayo Clinic Proceedings , European Journal of Health Economics , Journal of Surgical Education , Journal of European Social Policy, Neuromodulation , Journal of Life Care Planning , Applied Health Economics &amp; Health Policy. Professor Okunade is a founding Board of Trustees member of The American Society of Health Economists (the leading US professional association of health economists), and an Editorial Board member of the Journal of Business Valuation and Economic Loss Analysis (Berkeley Electronics Press). He has guest edited “Special Issues” of The Quarterly Review of Economics &amp; Finance , and Journal of Health Care Finance , served as a past Editorial Board member of the Journal of Health Care Finance and on the Board of Christ Community Medical Clinic (Memphis, TN). He is an ad hoc referee of manuscripts for high quality refereed journals, such as, Journal of Comparative Economics, Health Economics, Economics of Education Review, Journal of Higher Education, Contemporary Economic Policy, Southern Economic Journal, Journal of Health Economics , Social Science &amp; Medicine, Journal of Advertising, The Lancet, Clinical Breast Cancer , Health Economics , European Journal of Health Economics , Bio-Med Central journals including Health and Quality of Life Outcomes , BMC Public Health , BMC Health Services Research , International Journal for Equity in Health. Dr. Albert Okunade, Chair of the Local Organizing Committees for national (1996) and regional (2011) health care economics conferences , held at the University of Memphis, has also conducted dozens of invited interviews on several emerging health and medical care economics and health policy issues on TV and in print media (local and national popular presses and trade publications). About Programs Faculty Research News Undergraduate Programs Learn about our undergraduate offerings! Seminars Keep up with the latest Economic academic research in our upcoming seminars. Contact Us Do you have questions? Please feel free to contact us! Return to FCBE Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .