#http://www.memphis.edu/fcbe/news/archive_flash/2015apr/01_tva_challenge.php
Fogelman College Places in Top Five in the TVA Challenge for Second Year in a Row - FCBE - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Fogelman College of Business &amp; Economics About Programs Students Departments Faculty &amp; Staff Research News News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Home FCBE News Fogelman College Places in Top Five in the TVA Challenge for Second Year in a Row Fogelman College Places in Top Five in the TVA Challenge for Second Year in a Row For the second consecutive year, Dr. Steven Jordan guided a team of FCBE students into the top five in the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) Investment Challenge. The team beat out Vanderbilt, University of Tennessee—Knoxville, and the University of Mississippi. FCBE will receive a performance bonus for the team's great efforts. The students outperformed the challenge's S&amp;P500 benchmark by 2.58 percent. "Only 20% of professionally managed enhanced index funds are able to beat the S&amp;P500 index," said team advisor, Dr. Jordan. "Our students should be very proud of their accomplishments." Dr. Steven Jordan and FCBE students utilizing real-time financial data ascertained in the Cook Analytics &amp; Trading Lab. Over the last two years, Fogelman College is one of the most successfully managed and more profitable funds among all 26 universities competing in the TVA challenge. "FCBE is extremely proud of our students' exemplary performances throughout this competition," said Dr. Jain, interim chair of Finance. "I am very grateful for the mentorship provided by Dr. Jordan. He has taken the student learning experience well beyond the classroom by travelling out of town with the student team to the TVA inter-university conferences. As the head coach Dr. Jordan routinely invites top-notch corporate leaders from the financial services industry into his classroom. His direction of the accomplishments of this team is invaluable." The TVA Investment Challenge Program aims to provide a real-world learning experience to participating students in the field of portfolio management. Students are provided the opportunity to actively manage TVA funds by designing investment strategies, calling in trades and providing performance reports to the TVA. Students also learn how to manage real money and develop practical skills useful for making stock investment decisions, either for their own investment portfolio or for potential career opportunities in the mutual or hedge fund industries. "The Department of Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate launched full-time classes in the Cook Lab this past spring. Since that time, student and faculty feedback has been immensely positive. Students' appetite for learning and applying fundamental and technical analysis tools has spiked manifold. Faculty, students, and industry speakers are spending countless hours outside of the classroom hours in the lab to obtain an edge over their competitors from other universities as they manage the TVA portfolio and participate in the CFA Institute global research challenge," said Dr. Jain. "University of Memphis team performance in these inter-university competitions and individual students' job-relevant skill set are expected to improve significantly because of the resources in the newly added state-of-the-art Cook Lab." News News Current News News Archive Events College Publications Fogelman Focus Fogelman Flash Memo: Memphis Fogelman Features Department Newsletters Apply to our Undergraduate Programs &gt; Enroll at the university and engage yourself with our six different departments, student enrichment, and more. Apply to our Masters Programs &gt; Earn your degree with one of our six MBA tracks or with one of our four specialized Masters programs! Apply to our Doctoral Programs &gt; Interested in a Ph.D.? Start the journey towards your Ph.D. here! Contact Us &gt; Have questions? Call or email today! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .