#http://www.memphis.edu/msci/ugrad/scholarships.php
Scholarships - Math Sciences - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Undergraduate Admissions Honors Program Accelerated BS/MS (ABM) Advising Scholarships Courses &amp; Syllabi Cantor Sect Home Math Sciences Undergraduate Scholarships Scholarships The University of Memphis offers the following one-year scholarships for full-time undergraduates majoring in Mathematics or Statistics ( including double or second majors ). Multiple recipients for each scholarship may be chosen. The Kaltenborn Scholarship The Kaltenborn Scholarship is awarded in amounts ranging up to $1,500. Candidates must have completed at least 15 semester hours within the Mathematical Sciences major (in any concentration) while attending the University of Memphis; maintain at least a 3.0 cumulative GPA, with at least a 3.5 GPA in Mathematical Sciences major courses; and have demonstrated evidence of mathematical maturity through their coursework. The R. P. &amp; Dorothy Clark Scholarship The R. P. &amp; Dorothy Clark Scholarship is awarded in amounts up to $2,000. Designated for Outstanding Juniors majoring in the Mathematical Sciences (in any concentration). Candidates must have completed at least 18 semester hours within the Mathematical Sciences major at the time of application. The Professor James E. Jamison Scholarship Professor James E. Jamison was Chair of the Department of Mathematical Sciences 2000-2012 and a faculty member 1970-2014. He had a highly active and productive professional life, both as a dedicated teacher, mentor and renowned researcher in Operator Theory and Functional Analysis. His enthusiasm as a teacher of mathematics inspired generations of young scholars to pursue mathematics on their own. As Chair he led the department to national and international visibility. He continued with his research and teaching while maintaining a regular professional schedule up to the very last days of his life. Jim Jamison’s passion for mathematics will stay forever with those who knew him. The expected award amount for the Professor James E. Jamison Scholarship is $1000. Candidates must have completed at least 60 hours at the University of Memphis, of which 12 hours must be the Calculus Sequence ( Math 1910 , 1920 and 2110 ; or Math 1421 , 2421 and 2422 ) and major or double-major in Mathematical Sciences (second majors do not qualify); maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher, with at least a 3.5 GPA in their Mathematical Sciences courses. Candidates must also have completed the Calculus Sequence ( Math 1910 , 1920 and 2110 ; or Math 1421 , 2421 and 2422 ) at the University of Memphis, Department of Mathematical Sciences. How to Apply For instructions on how to apply, as well as information on other scholarships offered at the University of Memphis, visit the Scholarship Office . For the Kaltenborn, R. P. &amp; Dorothy Clark, and Professor James E. Jamison Scholarships, please include in your application the names and email addresses of two faculty members who will provide supporting letters, whom the Committee will solicit directly. Please also clearly indicate if you are applying for the Professor James E. Jamison Scholarship. For more information, please contact Dr. Campbell at jcampbll@memphis.edu . Undergraduate Admissions Honors Program Accelerated BS/MS (ABM) Advising Scholarships Courses &amp; Syllabi Cantor Sect Contact Us How to contact us, and whom to contact about what. Student FAQ Student resources for advising, tutoring, and registering for classes. ALEKS Information on the ALEKS computerized placement test. Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .