#http://www.memphis.edu/cepr/research/spirit.php
SPIRIT Research - CEPR - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Counseling, Educational Psychology &amp; Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Ed Psych &amp; Research Faculty Research Home CEPR Research SPIRIT Research Scientific Partnership for International Research on Inquiry Thinking Meetings (Fall and Spring Semesters) Mondays 3:30 pm - 4:30 pm Barbara K. Lipman School &amp; Research Institute 3771 Poplar Avenue Memphis, TN 38111 faculty members Denise Winsor lipman director Sandra Brown-Turner teaching staff Carol Cordeau Young Erin King Jodie Friedman Harmony Swenson Jan Kidder Rachel Crown doctoral students Mahbubul Hasan Jessica Boles Jun Hoa Hui Hzang Laura Lee Crystal White who we are The Scientific Partnership for International Research on Inquiry Thinking (SPIRIT) is a partnership of interdisciplinary researchers from the fields of Science, Cognitive Psychology, Child Development and Science Education and early childhood practitioners. The group is under the direction of an interdisciplinary faculty Denise Winsor, Don Franceschetti, and Sandy Brown Turner from the University of Memphis. Research Goals to develop the research agenda for the Barbara K. Lipman Early Childhood School and Research Institute to include an International Inquiry Research Institute where research and development for teacher training, investigations into the nature of Inquiry in children, and a program to model inquiry teaching will be established. to investigate the influences of school environments (populations, settings, and measures) on the development of inquiry reasoning in children and teachers. to investigate the complex process of inquiry reasoning in children across diverse cultures and teachers' understanding of inquiry teaching in Diverse Cultures. Present and publish current research. current projects Hasan, M. &amp; Winsor, D. L. (2015, April). Exploring the epistemological foundation of think-pair-share with iPad math application in kindergarten. 27th Annual University of Memphis Graduate Student Research Forum. Memphis, TN. actively pursing publications Winsor, D.L. &amp; Bendixen, L.D. (2013, August). Using focus groups to explore epistemic development in preschool children. Symposium presented at the annual conference of the American Psychological Association, Honolulu, Hawaii. Winsor, D.L., Kidder, J., Friedman, J., &amp; Turner-Brown, S. (2013, August). Who am I? Parental storytelling as an interviewing technique for preschool children. Symposium presentation at the annual conference of the American Psychological Association, Honolulu, Hawaii. Winsor, D.L. &amp; Bendixen, L.D. (2013, May). Exploring preschooler's personal epistemology and potential links to emotion: Using focus groups and classroom observations. Symposium Paper presented at the annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association, San Francisco, California. Winsor, D.L., Hao, J., &amp; Hzang, H. (2013, March). Using mobi technology in early childhood classrooms. Paper presented at the annual conference of the International Association of Laboratory Schools, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Winsor, D.L., Hzang, H., &amp; Hao, J. (2013, March). Who am I: Parent storytelling reveals cultural influences in early development of self. Paper presented at the annual conference for International Association of Laboratory Schools, Baton Rouge, Lousiana. Audley-Piotrowski, S., Winsor, D.L., &amp; Blake, S. (2012, April). Every moment is a teachable moment: Preschool teacher's epistemologies and social-emotional competence. Poster presented at the annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association, Vancouver, British Columbia. collaborative activities Develop teacher training and teaching modules for early childhood educators with a focus on STEM Develop a course based on these materials for ECE pre-service teachers Develop in-service training for teachers Seek competitive grant funding from National and International funding sources. Admissions Current Students Student Organizations Contact Us Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .