#http://www.memphis.edu/law/admissions/bragging-rights.php
Memphis Bragging Points - School of Law - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application Guide LSAT Prep Transfer Information TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP) Part-Time Program Schedule a Visit Academic Curriculum Apply Now Check Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats Overview Class Profile Factsheet 2015 Viewbook Request a Viewbook Bragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of Costs Tuition Information Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Payment Academic Curriculum Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Recruiting Calendar Ask a Current Student Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ List Application Information LSAT Notification and Acceptance Curriculum Childcare City of Memphis Admitted Student Information Home School of Law Admissions Memphis Bragging Points BRAGGING RIGHTS Ranked by preLaw magazine as one of the Best Value Law Schools in the nation. A bar passage rate consistently higher than the Tennessee state average, topping the state average for 15 years straight. A quality of life our students rave about . Downtown Memphis is the region's cultural, sports and entertainment hub with 15 museums, FedExForum, AutoZone Park, Orpheum Theatre, and the Cannon Center. Our location in a major metropolitan center of commerce and research sets us apart. Memphis is home to companies like FedEx, International Paper, and AutoZone, while St. Jude Children's Research Hospital anchors its growing international biotechnology community. Top 4 "Markets for Millennials" with the right live/work/play environment. - Wall Street Journal Our strong emphasis on experiential learning . Memphis Law's program focuses on preparing students to be practice-ready attorneys through strong advocacy training and numerous externship and clinical opportunities. Commitment to the community . Memphis Law students completed over 10,000 hours of pro bono service hours in the Memphis community last year. Proximity to the courts and legal community . All federal and state courts and some of the city's most prominent law firms are located within easy walking distance of Memphis Law. Listed as having the "Best Law School Facilities" in the nation by preLaw magazine, Memphis Law is housed in award-winning, state-of-the-art facilities overlooking the Mississippi River. Relocated to the historic U.S. Custom House/Court House/Post Office in early 2010, Memphis Law's library, courtrooms, classrooms, and meeting facilities provide an exceptional and high-tech environment. Committed mentors from the alumni and legal communities. Many alumni and members of the legal community teach as adjunct professors and are involved in networking events, career placement, and mentoring students. The diverse student body and faculty found at Memphis Law is exceptional. Expect to find people at Memphis Law with diverse life experiences, career paths, and teaching techniques. Memphis is ranked as #6 on the " Most Affordable Cities in America" list by Forbes. Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application Guide LSAT Prep Transfer Information TN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP) Part-Time Program Schedule a Visit Academic Curriculum Apply Now Check Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats Overview Class Profile Factsheet 2015 Viewbook Request a Viewbook Bragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of Costs Tuition Information Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Payment Academic Curriculum Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Recruiting Calendar Ask a Current Student Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ List Application Information LSAT Notification and Acceptance Curriculum Childcare City of Memphis Admitted Student Information Apply to Memphis Law News &amp; Events Alumni &amp; Support ABA Required Disclosures Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .