#http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/teaching/
Egyptology Programs - Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Institute of Egyptian Art and Archaeology About Location Teaching Staff Research Exhibition Events Resources Degree Programs in Egyptology Prospective Students Graduate Undergraduate Current M.A. Students Alumni Home Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology Teaching Studying Ancient Egypt at Memphis One of the most important functions of the Institute of Egyptian Art &amp; Archaeology, (hereafter IEAA), is teaching. The faculty of the IEAA teach undergraduate, graduate, and Continuing Education classes in Egyptian art, archaeology, history, religion, and language. The University of Memphis has two separate departments that offer degrees with a concentration in Ancient Egypt : the master and bachelor of arts programs in Art History in the Department of Art in the College of Communication and Fine Arts and the master of arts and doctoral programs in the Department of History in the College of Arts and Sciences. The Art History and History programs require SEPARATE APPLICATIONS. "So you want to become an Egyptologist?" Click here to view the text of a standard letter which answers questions commonly asked by those still in j unior high / middle school or high school who are thinking about Egyptology as a career. Click here to view the text of a standard letter which answers questions commonly asked by undergraduate students who are thinking about applying to graduate school in Egyptology. The Egyptology Resources web site by Dr. Nigel Strudwick also has a helpful FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) page for individuals interested in careers in Egyptology. What can the M.A. program in art history do for you? The Master's degree program in Art History with a concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology is designed to prepare the student either to continue on to a higher degree or to enter an alternate career path. Whichever the student's choice, the program will assist the student in developing strong skills in analytical thinking, research and writing. Egyptology students with the M.A. degree in Art History from the University of Memphis have continued on to Ph.D. programs in ancient Egyptian art, history, archaeology, and language at such distinguished institutions as New York University, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Chicago, The Johns Hopkins University, Emory University, and University College, London. Other of our students have enrolled in programs in related fields such as religious studies, ancient history and museum studies. Graduates have also found internships or employment in secondary education, field archaeology, and museums. What can the B.A. program in art history do for you? The Bachelor's degree program in Art History with a concentration in Egyptian Art and Archaeology is designed to provide the student with a strong liberal arts background which will provide them with a firm intellectual and experiential foundation for future endeavors, including continuing on to a higher degree. Specific instruction in the art, language and history of ancient Egypt will challenge the student to perform to their highest potential. The program will assist the student in developing strong skills in analytical thinking, research and writing. Egyptology or Degree-Related Classes Offered at The University of Memphis Primarily in the programs in Art History and History, the University of Memphis offers over two dozen courses related to Egyptology. Some of these courses may be taken by advanced undergraduate students while others are reserved for graduate study. These listings are from the on-line undergraduate and graduate bulletins. Degree Programs in Egyptology Prospective Students Graduate Undergraduate Current M.A. Students Alumni Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .