#http://www.memphis.edu/tentcity/issues/
Issues - Tent City: Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Tent City: Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee The Movement People Issues Organizing Resources Issues Sharecropping What is Sharecropping? Daily Conditions The Vote Registering Time to Vote Power of Voting Desegregation Segregated Life Desegregating Fayette County Schools Legal Figures School Integration Case Study: A Fayette County Student and Activist Share Your Story Home Tent City: Stories of Civil Rights in Fayette County, Tennessee Issues What Is Sharecropping? A Rural Economic Strategy Extends the Pre-Civil War Way of Life into the Twentieth Century Sharecropping is an agreement between the person who owns the land and a laborer, who works the land in return for a percentage of the profits at the end of the season. Almost always, the sharecropper's wife and children were included in the agreement and worked the land as well. Sharecroppers in the U.S. have been of varying races, but in the South, they were predominantly African-American. Fayette County home. c. 1964 Source: Fayette-Haywood Newspaper Harpman Jameson describes Sharecropping 2002 Documentary Project on Fayette County, Tennessee. Source: Special Collections, University of Memphis Libraries. At first glance, sharecropping might seem like a workable solution for a farming need—one that offers an equal exchange: The landowner would provide seeds, fertilizer, tools, and housing, in return for a sharecropper's labor. At the end of the season, the profits from the harvest would be split between the sharecropper and the landlord. However, in Fayette County—as in most of the South—the landowners held all of the economic power in sharecropping relationships, and could take advantage of the sharecroppers, who often knew no other way of life and lacked alternative means of making a living. In Fayette County, the terms sharecroppers agreed to were often unknown or misunderstood because of low literacy rates and the verbal nature of the contracts. And sometimes, when it came time to settle accounts, the terms were simply ignored—in the landowner's favor. Most sharecroppers lived with their families in small, unsafe homes. Source: Sepia Magazine Post-Civil War, white landowners in the South scrambled to run their plantations profitably—only now, without slaves. Lincoln's 1863 Emancipation Proclamation, followed by the 13th Constitutional Amendment in 1865, had outlawed slavery. However, from 1880 to 1890, Fayette County experienced a 50% increase in the number of sharecroppers [2]. To maintain a steady source of cheap labor and to continue the well-established, patriarchal relationship comfortable for whites in the rural South, it was in the best interest of the landowners to keep their sharecroppers dependent on them. As a result, landowners also kept the sharecropper population powerless. From the seeds for planting crops to the humblest everyday necessity, sharecroppers had to go to their landowner, hat in hand. It is no wonder why critics have called sharecropping "semislavery" [3]. Today, it is difficult for us to truly understand the dire implications of this system: Even up through much of the 20th century, conditions in the rural South remained almost the same as they had been for the past two centuries. A low-yield season would leave the sharecropper unable to pay back the landlord for resources advanced at the beginning of the season and for loans made over the year for necessities he and his family could not grow, raise, or build for themselves: health care, fuel, shoes, seeds, paint, etc. It was common for the "records" to be inflated when tallied, so that even in a good year, the sharecropper might barely make a profit or even remain in debt to the landowner. Whatever the results, those funds had to carry the sharecropper and his family through the winter. Issues Sharecropping What is Sharecropping? Daily Conditions The Vote Registering Time to Vote Power of Voting Desegregation Segregated Life Desegregating Fayette County Schools Legal Figures School Integration Case Study: A Fayette County Student and Activist Share Your Story Share Your Story Do You Have a Story to Share? We would Like to Hear from You Moving out of Shacks and into Tents Sharecroppers were forced out of their homes and into tents Civil Rights in the 21st Century How do experiences from the 1960s affect people's feelings, hopes, or concerns about Fayette County today? Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change Teaching, Studying, and Promoting Civil Rights and Social Change Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .