#http://www.memphis.edu/setwc/about/
UofM - SETWC - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Southeast Transportation Workforce Center About Us Education Private Sector Public Sector Resources Focus Areas About Us Home SETWC About Us About Us SETWC Team members include, from left to right: Sean Ellis, Meredith Powers, Dr. Stephanie Ivey, Dan Pallme, and Annie Rapalo Dr. Stephanie Ivey , Center Director Dr. Stephanie Ivey is the Director of the Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute and an Associate Professor with the Department of Civil Engineering at the University of Memphis. her primary research areas are transportation planning/ policy and K-20 STEM education. She is currently conducting funded research regarding STEM education, livability in freight-centric communities, MAP-21 performance measures, and strategies for successful public involvement in transportation projects. Dr. Ivey is the Project Director for the West Tennessee STEM Collaboratory. She is also a program director for the Herff College of Engineering's targeted outreach programs, Girls Experiencing Engineering and Transportation Engineering Careers. She is faculty advisor for the student chapter of the Institute of Transportation Engineers, Volunteer Coordinator for the ITE Transportation Education council, and serves on the Board of Directors for the West Tennessee Branch of the American Society of Civil Engineers. Annie Wise Rapalo , Research/ Data Coordinator In addition to her role as research/ data coordinator for SETWC, Annie is the program manager and lead of the STEM Ambassadors Corp for the West Tennessee STEM Collaboratory, the program and data coordinator for the Girls Experiencing Engineering program, and the organizational leader of the Society of Female Transportation Professionals- Memphis Area. Annie received bachelor's degrees in both physics and mathematical sciences from the University of Memphis, where she also completed a master's in civil engineering. Dan Pallme , Private Sector Coordinator Dan Pallme (Memphis '86) is the Senior Associate Director, Freight Industry Liaison of the Intermodal Freight Transportation Institute and Director of the Freight Transportation Leadership Academy at the University of Memphis and the private sector coordinator for SETWC. He has focused his career in the transportation field. He has been a past director and member of the Traffic Club of Memphis for several years. He is the Vice President of Education for the Logistics and Transportation Association of North America. Dan is a member of the Council of Supply Chain Management Professionals and serves on the Board of the Mid-South CSCMP Roundtable. He serves on various other transportation organizations including the American Society of Transportation and Logistics, Propeller Cub, Memphis MPO Freight Committee, Intermodal Freight Transportation Committee at the Transportation Research Board, and the co-chair of the Transportation Committee Logistics Task Force for the Greater Memphis Chamber. Dan currently serves on the Executive Committee of the Council of University Transportation Centers. He graduated in June 2011 with a Master of Science in Intermodal Transportation Management from the University of Denver. Sean Ellis , Public Sector Coordinator Sean has served as the Associate Director of IFTI for the past seven years and will be the public sector coordinator for SETWC. In addition, Sean has been the financial manager for the Center for Advance Intermodal Technology (CAIT), Center for Intermodal Freight Transportation Studies (CFITS-UTC) and the southern hub Center for Freight and Infrastructure, Research and Education (C-FIRE-UTC). Sean received his bachelor's degree in finance from Auburn University and a Master's in Business Administration (MBA) from the University of Memphis. Meredith Powers , Marketing Director Meredith brings over fifteen years of marketing, communications, event planning and public relations experience to SETWC. She currently works in marketing roles for IFTI, the West TN STEM Hub, the Herff College of Engineering, and the Center for the Advancement of Female Transportation Professionals. She has experience developing and administering marketing plans to a variety of audiences and a variety of ages. A graduate of Rhodes College with a bachelor's degree in urban studies, Meredith holds a M.Ed. in higher education administration from Vanderbilt University. SETWC Organizational Chart: About Us Join Our Mailing List! Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .