#https://fcbeacad.memphis.edu/syllabus/econ/2015FECON2020002.pdf
p. 1 Course Syllabus ECON2020 - 002 Introduction to Microeconomics Fall 2015 Semester 3 Credit Hours Instructor: Toluwalope A. Ayangbayi E - mail: tyngbayi@memphis.edu O ffice: 117 F ogelman E xecutive C enter Clas ses hold 11.20a.m 12. 45p.m Tuesday and Thursday. Venue: FCB 11 8 Office Hours: 3 4 pm Tuesday and Thursday Course Overview This course is an introduction to the o peration of the market economy at the individual and firm level . We will analyze supply and demand, consumer behavior, behavior of firms in both competitive and monopoly environments, income distribution theory, and the effects of government intervention in the market economy. Pre - Requisites/Co - Requisites: There are no course pre - req uisites to enrolling in this course. However, the student should have a good grasp of basic mathematics and applied writing skills. In general, it is assumed that all students who are registering for Fogelman College classes have successfully completed a ny pre - requisites or are enrolled currently in any co - requisites associated with this course. Required Texts (and Related M aterials) : Microeconomics 5 th Edition ( with MyEconLab access ), R n . Published by Pearson . - 1=1227&div - 1=&ter m_id - 1=201580&dept - 1=ECON&course - 1=2020&section - 1=002 representative will attend the first class to provide further information on how to access the text and MyEconLab. Recommended Texts (and Related Materials) : It is recommended (but not required) that students have a ccess to at least one periodical that includes business news ( Commercial Appeal, Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg, etc. ) Location of Course Materials : The main reference material is the course text. All assignments will take pl ace on MyEconLab while discussion threads will be on eCourseware. Course Objectives : By successfully comp leting this course, the student shou l d be able to: 1. Define scarcity, opportunity costs, demonstrate how they affect economic decisions, and identify those costs in a given economic decision. 2. E xplain and apply marginal benefits and marginal costs to determine optimal economic decisions for both consumers and firm s, and relate them to the Benefit - Cost Principle. 3. E xplain how markets allocate scarce resources via the interaction of supply and demand; how supply and demand are represented by supply curves and demand curves, respectively; and what factors cause supply or demand to change. 4. E xplain how the interaction of supply and demand can create shortages and surpluses, and how this can cause price and quantity to change. 5. D escribe effects of government policies like taxes, subsidies, and/or price controls on prices and output, and define deadweight loss in this context. 6. D efine elasticity for different variables in the demand or supply function (e.g. own, cross, income, etc.), and should be able to describe the effect of a given elasticity on economic outcomes (e.g. , revenues, tax burden, policy choices, etc.). 7. D iscuss how marginal cost helps determine the overall level of output produced within a market, and how much each individual firm produces. Using variable cost, fixed cost, and total costs, the student should be able to discuss other aspects of production, such as the level of economic profit, the decision to shut down or stay in business, and how these costs vary in the short run and long run. 8. I dentify how competition affects market outcomes, such as economi c profit, the level of output, and price mark - ups, and how different types of markets have different such outcomes based on their level of competition. Fogelman College: L earning Outcomes for Your for ECON 2020 (Introduction to Microeconomics) Course Methodology The course takes place in a physical classroom environment with of instructor - led lectures which introduce a nd explain the core topics in the course curriculum . As students may have varying attention spans, the allotted time for each class may not adequately meet the . T herefore , a lot of learning is also be expected to take place through the - study and completion of homework which will be assigned from time to time during the course of the semester. Profe In general, you should assist the instructor in creating a positive, supportive environment for learning by staying engaged in the course and acti vely participating in class, making use lines . Student's Expectations: In my role as your instructor, there are certain things you can expect from me including: well - organized and engaging learning experience, response to emails within two (2) business days, and feedba ck on all work submitted wi thin 7 - 10 calendar days. Grading and Evaluation Criteria Over the semester, you will have a variety of opportunities to earn points towards your final (overall) letter grade in this course. Y ou should expect to complete: HW1 HW5 each weighted 10% of your final score Midterm1 and Midterm2 exams each weighted 10% of final score F inal exam weighted 20% of final score Attendance (and pu nctuality) 10% Midterms will take place during the 1hour 25 minutes class slot. Final Course Grades Point Range Assigned Grade 91 - 100 Points A 84 - 90 Points B 75 - 83 Points C 65 - 74 Points D Under 65 Points F Final Exam Schedule The final exam for this class will be scheduled according to the academic calendar website . Course Policies E - MAIL: All students are required to maintain and access their University of Memphis (@memphis.edu) email account. A ll course correspondence will use this email account only and I will not respond to email from any other address. Any inability to receive responsibility. Attendance: F ormal attendance will be taken during ALL classes. Attendance is worth 10% of your final term score . Therefore , you are expected to stay active and engaged throughout the academic term and keep up wi th the schedule of activities. Your full engagement in the class begins on the first day of the semester and should be maintained until the last assignment is submitted. Students not meeting satisfactory attendance requirements may be reported to school authorities; and f or students receiving federal student loans, any lack of engagement in the course may be treated as non - attend ance and potentially impact access to student loans in th e future. While late arrival and absenteeism will not be condoned, a student arriving late or not attending should as a matter courtesy, email the instructor prior to commence ment of class proceedings (you do not need to give a reason). Doing this does no t however absolve such student of any penalty. Adding/Dropping : I f you have questions about adding or dropping classes, please refer to th e relevant page on the . Academic Integrity: The University of Memphis has clear codes regarding cheating and classroom misconduct. If interested, you may refer to the Student Handbook section on academic misconduct for a discussion of these codes. Manual is considered cheating. Office of Student Conduct website . If you have any questions about academic integrity or plagiarism, you are strongly encouraged to review the Fogelman College's Website on Academic Integrity . Participation: To be successful in this course as a student, you must stay active and involved throughout the entire semester. Students are expected to participate in all interactive aspects of the course. You should also regularly communicate with the instructor as part of your overall learning experience, and check into the course web page frequently for announcements (usually on the cour se home page) . You should plan on logging into the course at least a few times daily. Classroom or Online Behavior: All participants in the course should be considerate of the other course participants and treat them (as well as their opinions) with respect. The class will operate under the assumption that any and all feedback offered is positive in nature and that the intentions of the person(s) providing feedback are strictly honorable. Insensitivity in this area will not be tolerated. If you have any questions about online communication, you should review the Fogelman College's Netiquette website . Late Assignments: A ssignments and projects may be submitted anytime up to and includi ng the date due. If your work is not submitted on time, the instructor reser ves the option to deduct up to 1 0% of the grade value for tardiness depending upon the circumstances and appropriate communication between the student and the instructor. Extra Credit: There is no extra credit offered in this course. Your final grade will be computed based on your work o n the formal/assessed activities previously described in this syllabus. Inclement Weather: In the event that inclement weather requires the cancellation of classes at T he University of Memphis, local radio and television media will be immedi ately notified. Additionally, T he University of Memphis has established an I nclement Weather Hotline at 678 - 0888 as well as TigerText , an emergency alert text messaging service to students, faculty and staff. This optional service is used in the event of an on - campus emergency, an unscheduled university closing, or a delay or cancellation of classes due to, for instance, inclement weather . Click Here for information on TigerText. Syllabus Changes: The instructor reserves the right to make changes as necessary to this syllabus. If changes are necessitated during the term of the co urse, the instructor will immediately notify students of such changes both by individual email communication and posting both notification and nature of change(s) on the course bulletin board. Student Services Please access the FCBE Student Services page for information about : Students with Disabilities Tutoring and other Academic Assistance Advising Services for Fogelman Students Technical Assistance