#http://www.memphis.edu/presweb/communications/june15legislativecompilation.pdf
1 Legislation Impacting the Tennessee Board of Regents and Member Institutions Public Acts of 2015 Section/Description Public Chapter Page I. ACADEMICS Textbook study and presentation. Not A pplicable 7 Redirects the endowment funds from a Chair of Excellence in English Poetry to a Chair of Excellence in Computer Science at the University of Memphis. Senate Resolution 14 House Resolution 8 8 Adds dry needling to scope of pr actice of a physical therapist. Public Chapter 124 8 Makes confidential job performance evaluations of employees of the State Treasurer, employees of the Comptroller of the Treasury, employees of the Secretary of State, and employees of public ins titutions of higher education. Public Chapter 169 8 Requires any postsecondary institution to report nonimmigrant student enrollme nt to the department of safety. Public Chapter 260 9 Establishes requirements and protections for healthcare prov iders that practice telehealth. Public Chapter 261 9 Enacts the State Authorizat ion Reciprocity Agreement Act (SARA) . Public Chapter 444 10 Adds new Tennessee STEM innovation hubs in rural areas of state and requires the Tennessee STEM innovation network to implement leadership training in all existing STEM innovation hubs. Public Chapter 489 11 Public Chapter 500 11 I I . APPROPRIATIONS Appropriations for fiscal year 2015 - 16 . Public Chapter 427 12 2 Section/Description Pub lic Chapter Page III. BOARD OF REGENTS Confirms the appointment of Barbara Pr escott to the Board of Regents. Senate Resolution 7 13 Confirms the appointment of Leigh S hockey to the Board of Regents. Senate Resolution 8 13 Confirms the appointment of John Stites II to the Board of Regents. Senate Resolution 9 13 IV. BUSINESS Redirects the endowment funds from a Chair of Excellence in English Poetry to a Chair of Excellence in Computer Science at the University of Memphis . Senate Resolution 14 House Resolution 8 13 Requires any state agency to notify the C omptroller of the T reasury of any confirmed or suspected unauthorized acqui sition of computerized data, computer information system , or related security system . Public Chapter 42 13 Creates a cause of action against an employer for discharge or adverse employment action based solely on transportation or storage of a firearm or firearm ammuniti on in an employer parking lot. Public Chapter 80 14 Terminates the higher education and technical ins titutions publication committee . Public Chapter 87 14 Revises the oversight of the Optional Retirement Program of Public Institutions of Higher Education . Public Chapter 118 15 Requires the Executive Director of THEC to convene representatives from UT and the Board of Regents to create, revise, and adopt policies to assist veterans and military service members with higher education programs. This legislation also makes other various revisions to the eligibility and in - state tuition guidelines of the Tennessee Veterans Ed ucation Transition Support Act . Public Chapter 219 15 3 Section/Description Public Chapter Page IV. BUSINESS Prohibits the use of an unmanned aircraft to capture an image, without the venue owner and operator's consent, of an individual or event at an open - air event venue. Public Chapter 240 16 Makes changes to public institutions of higher education and the Department of General Services related to c ooperative purchas ing agreements. Public Chapter 272 16 Authorizes the State Treasurer to create the Higher Educatio n Foundation Investment Pool . Public Chapter 324 17 Changes requirements to lease space . Public Chapter 382 18 Increases the threshold for public works projects that require a registered architect, registered engineer, or registered landscape architect. Public Chapter 403 18 Allows the State Insurance Committee to make v arious changes to state, local government, and local education insurance plans for those employed after July 1, 2015. Public Chapter 426 19 Permits students at the University of Memphis , who are residents of another state in a county lying immediately adjacent to Shelby county or who have residences within 30 miles of the university , to attend withou t paying out - of - state tuition. Public Chapter 447 20 Requires all public institu tions of higher education to observe Veterans Day. Public Chapter 482 20 Requires that state contract s clarify the entity responsible for collecting and remitting sales taxes, if applicable. Public Chapter 515 20 V. COMMUNITY COLLEGES AND COLLEGES OF APPLIED TECHNOLOGY Creates the Community College Reconnect Grant. Public Chapter 363 21 VI. GOVERNANCE Enacts the State Authorizat ion Reciprocity Agreement Act (SARA) . Public Chapter 444 23 4 Section/Description Public Chapter Page VII. LEGAL Creates a cause of action against an employer for discharge or adverse employment action based solely on transportation or storage of a firearm or firearm ammuniti on in an employer parking lot. Public Chapter 80 24 Makes confidential job performance evaluations of employees of the State Treasurer, employees of the Comptrolle r of the Treasury, employees of the Secretary of State, and employees of public ins titutions of higher education. Public Chapter 169 24 Prohibits the use of an unmanned aircraft to capture an image, without the venue owner and operator's consent, of an individual or event at an open - air event venue. Public Chapter 240 25 R equires the Domestic Violence State Coordinating Council to create a model policy for law enforcement agencies responding to repo rts of sexually oriented crimes and requires all law enforcement agencies to adopt the model policy or similar policy by July 1, 2016. The act also p rovides a victim of a sexually oriented crime with a forensic medical examinati on without charge to the victim and establishes requirements for collection of evidence, testing and handling o f such evidence. Public Chapter 253 25 Makes changes to public institutions of higher education and the Department of General Services related to c ooperative purchas ing agreements. Public Chapter 272 27 Enacts the R acial Profiling Prevention Act for law enforcement agencies. Public Chapter 335 28 Requires that state contracts clarify the entity responsible for collecting and remitting sales taxes, if applicable. Public Chapter 515 28 VII I . LOTTERY SCHOLARSHIP AND NEED - BASED AID Makes various revisions to the Ten nessee Promise Scholarship Act. Public Chapter 186 29 Creates the Community College Reconnect Grant. Public Chapter 363 30 Provides for certain children of military families to receive the HOPE Scholarship. Public Chapter 491 31 5 Section/Description Public Chapter Page VII I . LOTTERY SCHOLARSHIP AND NEED - BASED AID Adds eligibility for students with certain high school equivalency test (HiSET and GED scores) for the HOPE Scholarship. Public Chapter 495 32 IX . SAFETY AND SECURITY Requires any state agency to notify the C omptroller of the T reasury of any confirmed or suspected unauthorized acqui sition of computerized data, computer information system , or related security system . Public Chapter 42 33 Creates a cause of action against an employer for discharge or adverse employment action based solely on transportation or storage of a firearm or firearm ammuniti on in an employer parking lot. Public Chapter 80 33 Prohibits the use of an unmanned aircraft to capture an image, without the venue owner and operator's consent at an open - air event venue. Public Chapter 240 33 R equires the Domestic Violence State Coordinating Council to create a model policy for law enforcement agencies responding to repo rts of sexually oriented crimes and requires all law enforcement agencies to adopt the model policy or similar policy by July 1, 2016. The act also p rovides a victim of a sexually oriented crime with a forensic medical examinati on without charge to the victim and establishes requirements for collection of evidence, testing and handling o f such evidence. Public Chapter 253 34 Enacts the R acial Profiling Prevention Act for law enforcement agencies. Public Chapter 335 35 6 Section/Description Public Chapter Page X. STUDENT AFFAIRS Immunization - In lieu of legislation, TBR and the TN Department of Health will undertake a process to streamline the im munization process for students, higher education , and the Department of Health . Not Applicable 35 Requires the Executive Director of THEC to convene representatives from UT and the Board of Regents to create, revise, and adopt policies to assist veterans and military service members with higher education programs. This legislation also makes other various revi sions to the eligibility and in - state tuition guidelines of the Tennessee Veterans Ed ucation Transition Support Act. Public Chapter 219 36 R equires the Domestic Violence State Coordinating Council to create a model policy for law enforcement agencies responding to repo rts of sexually oriented crimes and requires all law enforcement agencies to adopt the model policy or similar policy by July 1, 2016. The act als o p rovides a victim of a sexually oriented crime with a forensic medical examinati on without charge to the victim and establishes requirements for collection of evidence, testing and handling o f such evidence. Public Chapter 253 37 Requires any postsecondary institution to report nonimmigrant student enrollme nt to the TN De partment of S afety. Public Chapter 260 38 Requires all public institu tions to observe Veterans Day. Public Chapter 482 39 7 A CADEMICS Textbook Study and Presentation Textbook Study and Presentation. Representative Mike Sparks sponsored legislative this session asking higher education and the legislature to examine the cost of textbooks/educational materials and explore how technology and other innovations could save students money and enhance learning. Instead of moving the legislation, Representative Sparks agreed to the following request: During the summer and fall of 2015, t he Tennessee Board of Regents (TBR), the U niversity of Tennessee (UT), and the Tennessee Higher Education Commission (THEC) will convene to review the current policies to minimize the costs of textbooks and instructional materials for students, as well as work with faculty, members of the textbook publishing industries, students, and others with experience or expertise in textbook best practice models. The review shall include, but not be limited to: The average costs of textbooks and instructional materials for full - time and part - time student s; The use of traditional textbooks and instructional materials; A survey of students on each respective campus related to current use of traditional or electronic textbooks or materials and whether students will purchase electronic textbooks and instruct ional materials, if offered; A survey of the professors and bookstores on each campus of the frequency of professors pulling packets together from a variety of sources as opposed to requiring students to purchase traditional textbooks and instructional mat erials; The feasibility of public institutions of higher learning to transition from traditional textbooks for general education courses to open textbooks and course materials by the state institutions of higher education; The impact of open textbooks and course materials on the costs of traditional textbooks, the extent to which open textbooks and course materials can be used at institutions of higher education, and the potential savings generated for students and the state through the use of open textbook s and course materials; and The varying costs of traditional textbooks and instructional materials and electronic textbooks for Tennessee and surrounding states. Representative Harry Brooks, Chairman of the House Education Administration and Planning Committee, has asked THEC to present the results of this work to this committee in January 2016. Vice Chancellor of Academics, Tristan Denley will coordinate the involvement of TBR in this effort. 8 ACADEMICS Senate Resolution 14 House Resolution 8 University of Memphis, Chair of Excellence. These resolutions r edirect the endowment funds from the Lillian and Morrie Moss Chair of Excellence in English Poetry at the University of Memphis to the establishment and ongoing support of a Chair of Excellence in Computer Science at the University of Memphis. These resolutions become effective upon pas sage. Public Chapter 124 Dry Needling. This act adds dry needling to the scope of practice of a physical therapist. Dry needling means a skilled intervention that uses a thin filiform needle to penetrate the skin and stimulate underlying neural, muscular, and connective tissues for the management of neuromusculoskeletal conditions, pain, and movement impairments. The Board of Physical Therapy will establish minimum competency requirements tha t a physical therapist shall demonstrate in order to practice dry needling. For further information regarding the Board of Physical Therapy visit the following links: This legislation becomes effective upon passage. Public Chapter 169 TBR Human Resources Memo on 2015 Legislation Confidential Job Performance Evaluations. This act makes job performance evaluations confidential and not be open for public inspection for employees of the : Department of Treasury, Comptroller o f the Treasury, Secretary of State , and public institutions of higher education. Job evaluations includes, but are not limited to : job performance evaluations completed by supervisors, communications concerning job performance evaluations, self - evaluations of job performance prepa red by employees, job performance evaluation scores, drafts, notes, memoranda, and all other records relating to job performance evaluations. Under this act provisions do not limit access to those records by law enforcement agencies, courts, or other gover nmental agencies performing official functions. The TBR Director of Communications has notified all institutional communications directors that they are no longer required to provide these items to the media or related to a public records request. Atta other public chapters adopted during the 2015 legislative session. This legislation becomes effective upon passage. 9 ACADEMICS Public Chapter 260 Reporting of Nonimmigrant Students. This act requires that each institution that accepts nonimmigrant students possessing either an F - 1 or M - 1 student visa shall report to the TN Department of Saf ety the following information: t he number of nonimmigrant students enrolled at the institution at the be ginning and end of each period of study . The department, in consultation with the Tennessee Higher Education Commission, shall devel op a form that shall be available to institutions for reporting purposes. The TBR Office of Research and Assessment will coordinate the collection and submission of this information. This legislation becomes effective upon passage and shall apply to instruction beginning on or after August 1, 2015. Public Chapter 261 Telehealth. This legislation enacts provisions to the practice of telehealth or telemedicine regarding health care providers. 1) The act clarifies who is eligible to serve as a telehealth provider as: a. Any provider licensed to diagnose and treat humans in Title 63 of the TN Code or b. Any state - contracted crisis service provi der employed by a facility licensed under Title 33 of the TN Code. 2) The act defines telehealth / telemedicine as , the use of real - time audio, video, or other electronic media and telecommunications technologies that enable interaction between the healt hcare provider and the patient or store - and - forward telemedicine services for the purpose of diagnosis, consultation, or treatment of a patient in another location where there m ay be no in - person exchange. 3) The act clarifies that telemedicine / telehealth is conducted with mutual consent of the provider and patient, unless in an emergency. The duties and obligations created by the relationship do not arise until the health care provider undertakes or participates in the diagnosis and treatment th e patient. 4) A health care provider who delivers services through the use of telehealth /telemedicine is held to the same standard of professional practice as a similar licensee providing the same services through in - person encounters . 5) T elehealth/telemedicine cannot be used for pain management clinics or chronic nonmalignant pain treatment . 6) Current statutes related to the transfer of patient medical information outside the state (T.C.A. § 63 - 6 - 231) ; physical presence requirements for abortion (T.C.A. § 63 - 6 - 241) ; or statutes related to the grounds for license denial, suspension or revocation for transferring medical information across state lines (T.C.A. § 63 - 6 - 214(b ) ( 21)) do not apply to the practice of telemedicine/telehealth. This le gislation becomes effective on July 1 , 2015. 10 ACADEMICS Public Chapter 444 State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement Act. participation in a state authorization reciprocity agreement (SARA) relative to postsecondary distance education. Under this act, the Tennessee Higher Education Commission (THEC) is authorized to enter an interstate reciproc ity agreement known as SARA, or any successor organization, which serves the purpose of approving institutions in Tennessee to participate in SARA. The Commission can annually collect fees from each Tennessee SARA institution, based on full - time enrollment and commensurate with the cost of administering SARA. Fees collected cannot exceed that charged by the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC - SARA) or any successor organization. In the event that NC - SARA determines to waive o r terminate the assessment of fees for participating institutions, then the fees applicable to Tennessee SARA institutions shall be the same as those fees assessed in the prior fiscal year. Institutions in Tennessee that offer distance education may apply to THEC for approval to participate in SARA as a Tennessee SARA institution. By being a SARA institution, it may receive distance education students from other SARA member states without having to go through separate state - by - state authorizations. Program s that require state licensing (teaching, nursing, etc.) are not applicable to SARA. A non - Tennessee distance education student who files a complaint against a SARA - approved institution within the TBR or UT system will be referred from THEC to the public higher education system (TBR or UT) for investigation and final resolution. For further information regarding the Southern Regional Education Board who is administering SARA at the regional level: For information on the National C ouncil for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements, see - sara.org/ The Regents Online Campus Collaborative (ROCC) will coordinate the TBR institutional applications for SARA participation. This legislation becomes effective upon passage. 11 ACADEMICS Public Chapter 489 Tennessee STEM Innovation Network. This act require s the Tennessee STEM innovation network to establish two additional STEM innovation hubs : (1) a STEM innovation hub dedicated to serving the rural areas and (2) a STEM innovation hub lo cated in Northwest Tennessee . The Tennessee STEM innovation network is also required to: implement STEM l eadership training in all hubs; provide middle school curriculum on the benefits of STEM careers that can be accessed through the internet and is not limited to science classrooms ; and seek STEM partner organizations, such as the American Chemical Society, to find ways to collaborate on STEM education programs and opportunities. Currently, there are six STEM innovation hubs in the state. Three are affiliated with TBR campuses , including the: ETSU Northeast Tennessee STEM Innovation HUB TTU Upper Cumberland Rural STEM Initiative U of M West Tennessee STEM Hub The website for the Tennessee STEM Innovation Network is available at $1.5 million was appropriated in the budget ($750,000 recurring and $750,000 nonrecurring) to implement this act. This legislation becomes effective upon passage. Public Chapter 500 Go Build Tennessee Act. This act allows the s tate board for licensing contractors to establish a Go Build fund and a nonprofit corporation to administer the Go Build Tennessee Program to promote and foster the development of a comprehensive statewide progr am designed to attract and increase career opportunities for secondary and postsecondary students in the construction trades. This will include the promotion of TBR academic and training programs. Alabama and Georgia currently have Go Build programs, see links below for details. This legislation becomes effective upon passage. 12 APPROPRIATIONS Public Chapter 427 Appropriations. Provides state funding for the 2015 - 2016 fiscal year. Operating Dollars This budget fully funds the outcomes - based formula , which resulted in an estimated average increase of: 2.7% for TBR universities, 3.3% for community colleges, and .4% for TCATs. This amounts to a $19.4 million increase of which $18.2 million recognizes improvements in outcomes. The operating budget also included: $11 million for a salary increase funding pool, which represents the state portion of a 1.5% salary increase ; a $1.2 million increase , representing 3.1%, for the TBR non - formula units (ETSU medical school, TSU agricultural research and ex tension , and TBR system office); and f the 401K match and the increase in the employer share of health care premiums. Capital Outlay TCAT Improvements $23,370,000 APSU Fine Arts Improvements $15,975,000 Jackson State Health Sciences $16,200,000 ETSU Fine Arts Classroom Building $30,487,000 Capital Maintenance Over $ 82 million for Capital maintenance, which funds 72 capital maintenance projects . Campus Allocations $1 million for mpus $5.35 million ETSU Fossil site $5 million for equipment for TCATs to assist in increasing capacity $2 million Center for Advanced Manufacturing and Business Development owned by McMinn County and operated by TCAT - Athens This legislation will take effect July 1, 2015, provided that any provision of this act which authorized prior or immediate expenditures and any section or item which specifies an immediate effective date will take effect upon becoming a law. 13 BOARD OF REGENTS Senate Resolution 7 Barbara Prescott board appointment. This Senate resolution confirms the appointment of Barbara Prescott to the Board of Regents for a term that will expire on June 30, 2 020. Senate Resolution 8 Leigh Sh ockey board appointment. This Senate resolution confirms the appointment of Leigh Shockey to the Board of Regents for a term that will expire on June 30, 2020. Senate Resolution 9 John Stites board appointment . This Senate resolution confirms the appointment of John Stites to the Board of Regents for a term that will expire on June 30, 2020. BUSINESS Senate Resolution 14 House Resolution 8 University of Memphis, Chair of Excellence. These resolutions redirect the endowment funds to the Chair of Excellence in Computer Science at the University of Memphis. Public Chapter 42 Reporting of Security Breach. This act requires any state agency, including TBR , to notify the Comptroller of the Treasury of any confirmed or suspected unauthorized acquisition of computerized data or breach of a computer information system within no more than five working days . A breach does not include an individual occurrences of malware or spyware. For the purposes of this act, c omputer information system and related security system mean those computer information systems and security system infrastructures operated and administered by the state agency or an entity with which the state agency contracts for such operations and administration. - wide Audit is working with the Comptroller and TBR institutions to coordinate the reporting mechanism related to this act. This legislation becomes effective upo n passage. 14 BUSINESS Public Chapter 80 TBR Human Resources Memo on 2015 Legislation Adverse Employment Against Guns in Trunks. This act states that no employer will discharge or take and adverse employment action against an employee solely for transporting or storing a firearm or firearm ammunition in an employer parking area. 1) An emplo yee discharged, or subject to an adverse employment action under this provision is entitled to recover economic damages plus reasonable attorney fees and costs. 2) The employee is responsible for establishing a prima facie case of discharge, or adverse em 3) The employee has one (1) year from the date of termination of employment, or the date of adverse employment action, t o file claim. not by itself constitute a failure by the employer to provide a safe workplace. guidance to campuses on the implementation of this act. This legislation becomes effective on July 1, 2015. Public Chapter 87 Terminat ion of the Higher Education and Technical Institutions Publica tions Committee. Under this act the higher education and technical institutions publication committee shall terminate . n from campuses as needed and submit information to the TN Higher Education Commission for publication in their Fact Book . This legislative becomes effective upon passage. 15 BUSINESS Public Chapter 118 Optional Retirement Program of Public Institutions of Higher Education. The act changes the oversight and administration of the optional retirement program from the Tennessee Consolidated Retirement System Board of Trustees to a separate board . The members of the Optional Retirement Program Board are comprised of the Commissioner of Finance and Administration, the Senate and House Chairs of the Finance, Ways and Means Committees, and the Chair of the Consolidated Retirement Board. The Sta te Treasurer will be responsible for the day - to - day operations associated with this board specifically including rule promulgation, and eligibility determination for participation in the program This legislation becomes effective upon passage. Public Chapter 219 Section 702 Fact Sheet Tennessee Veterans Education Transition Support Act. This act aligns state statute with the federal section 702 . Specifically , this act provides in - state tuition to a veteran, or any individual entitled to the veteran's educational benefits (spouse or child) who is enrolled in any public institution of higher education in this state if the veteran or the eligible individual: (1) i s eligible for post - 9/11 GI Bill benefits or Montgomery GI Bill benefits; and (2) e nrolls in a public institution of higher education, after satisfying all admission requirements, within three years from the date of discharge as reflected on the veteran's certificate of release or discharge from active duty, Form DD - 214, or an equivalent document. In order to continue to qualify for in - state tuition and fees after three years have passed from the date of discharge, an eligible student shall: (1) Maintain continuous enrollment as defined by the public institution of higher education at which the stu dent is enrolled; and (2) Demonstrate objective evidence of established residency in this state by presenting at least two of the following: proof of (a) voter registration in this state, (b) Tennessee driver license, (c) Tennessee motor vehicle registration, (d) proof of established employment in this state; or (e) other documentation clearly evidencing domicile or residence in the state, as determined by THEC. The Executive Director of the Tennessee Higher Education Commission shall convene representatives from the University of Tennessee and the Tennessee Board of Regents systems to identify and develop uniform methods to assess and maximize academic credit awarded by public institutions of higher education to vetera ns and military service members for military experience, education, and training obtained during military service. By September 1, 2016, t he University of Tennessee and the Tennessee Board of Regents adopt or revise policies relating to the assessment and award of academic credit for military education, training, or service. TBR Office of Academic Affairs has notified TBR enrollment services staff of this change and will coordinate the ongoing implementation of Public Chapter 219. This legislation become s effective upon passage. 16 BUSINESS Public Chapter 240 Operation of Drones. This act makes it a Class C misdemeanor to use an unmanned aircraft to capture an image, without the venue owner and operator's consent, of : an individual or event at an open - air event venue where more tha n 100 individuals could gather; a designated fireworks discharge or display site, or a firewor ks fallout area during an event; or the grou nds of a correctional facility. This legislation becomes effective on July 1, 2015. Public Chapter 272 Cooperative Purchasing Agreements. Under this act public higher education institutions are specifically given authority to participate in, sponsor, conduct, or administer a cooperative purchasing agreement for the procurement of goods or services with one (1) or more other states or local governments in a ccordance with an agreement entered into between the participants. All cooperative purchasing conducted must be awarded th rough full and open competition. 1) a written objection by a respondent, challenging a solicitation, an award, or a proposed award of a contract . respond ent as defined in 12 - 3 - 201 , who has filed a protest. Any respondent who has submitted a response to a solicitation and who claims to be aggrieved in c onnection with the solicitation, award, or proposed award of a contract may protest to the chief procurement officer. The act changes when a protest shall be submitted in writing to within seven (7) calendar days after the notice of the award or intent to award the contract is issued. This act also states that a stay of the solicitation, award, or proposed award shall be in effect until the protest is resolved. Prior law require d the protesting party to request a stay. This act also says tha t the stay is n ot lifted unless, after giving the protesting party and opportunity to be heard, the chief procurement officer or protest committee makes a written determination that continuation of the procurement is necessary. As previously required, the protesting pa rty must submit a protest bond simultaneously with the protest. What changes under this act is the addition of ways to determine the amount of the bond required to: f ive percent (5%) of the lowest bid or cost proposal evaluated; f ive percent (5%) of the maximum liability or estimated maximum liability provided in the solicitation ; f ive percent (5%) of the estimated maximum revenue, the state would receive revenue under the solicitation, award or proposed award; or a n amount determine by the chief procurem ent officer for no - cost contracts. 17 BUSINESS Public Chapter 272 Cooperative Purchasing Agreements (Continued). The act clarifies additional situat ions when the protesting party must surrender the bond to the state to now include five circumstances: 1. t he protest was signed, before or after appeal to the chief procureme nt officer or protest committee ; 2. t he protest was brought or pursued in bad faith; 3. t he state agency impacted suffer ed damages resulting in a loss of funding, increased expenditures, or a disruption in services because the protest was filed in bad faith and not upheld; 4. t he protest did not state on its face a valid basis for protest; or 5. f or any other reason approved by the protest committee. the procurement of goods and services. This act now states that all respondents to the solicitation have to have an equal opportunity to request a limitation of liability. This act clarifies the limit of liability must be an amount less than two (2) times the maximum liability, estimated liability, or maximum revenue of a contract unless the chief procurement officer determines it is necessary to p for the amount to be higher or lower. This act adds two circumstances to existing law when a limitation of liability in a contract with the state shall not apply. This includes liability for intellectual property infringement or claims covered by any specific contractual provision that provides for liquidated damages. This legislation becomes effective upon passage. Public Chapter 324 Higher Education Foundation Investment Pool. This act creates the Higher Education Foundation Investment for the purpose of receiving and investing a higher education foundation dollars for the institution. Foundations may participate in the investment pool by submitting a request to the state treasurer requesting participation of so me or all of its money invested in the investment pool. Foundations may discontinue its participation in the investment pool by submit ting a request to the state treasurer f or the return of its principal investme nt or investment income or both. The state treasurer shall be responsible for the day - to - day administration of the investment pool and for establishing policies and procedures to manage the operations and responsibilities of the investment pool. Either the state treasurer or participant s hall have the authority to transfer and liquidate the assets that a participant wishes to invest in the investment pool. A participant may only invest its assets that are unencumbered or unrestricted in sale, transfer, or investment. The participant shall enter into an agreement with the department of treasury for participation in the investment pool, which shall include fees and expenses assessed by the department against a participant for services related to the investment of the participant's assets. T his legislation becomes effective upon passage. 18 BUSINESS Public Chapter 382 Requirements for L eas ing Space . This act changes the process of leasing space by state entities. 1. The act changes who prepares the needs from the Division of Real Property Management, Department of General Services to the state agency, department, or institution of higher education seeking the space. 2. The act adds that pr ocurement for lease space must comply with State Building Commission policy. 3. The act still requires advertisement of the lease in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or county where the space is needed on at least one occasion at least two week s before proposals are open. However, this act changes the exceptions for when a request for lease space must be advertised to include : The annual rental will be less than an amount to be specified by the policy of the state building commission, the amount not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) The property to be leased is owned or otherwise controlled by a city, county, or other political subdivision of the state or the federal government The space required by the entity has special and unique requ irements as determined and approved by the state building commission The term of the lease will be one (1) year or less . 4. The act still requires that a ny proposal to lease space s hall contain the name of any persons who are contemplated to become financially interested in the lease and requires it be made readily available and accessible for public examination. 5. T he act changes what entity may negotiate with prospective lessors fro m the Division of Real Property to the state agency procuring the space. The act also changes to whom the statement of justification must be sent if other than the lowest total cost bid is being selected. Previously, this justification was submitted to the Commissioner of General Services and the State Building Commission, with approval from the Commissioner required. Now, statement of justification is only submitted to the State Building Commission for approval. This legislation will become effective upo n becoming a law. Public Chapter 403 Threshold Increase for Public Works Projects. This act will increase the threshold from $25,000 to $50,000 for public works projects that require a registered architect, registered engineer, or registered landscape architect. This legislation will become effective upon becoming law 19 BUSINESS Public Chapter 426 TBR Human Resources Memo on 2015 Legislation Employee Insurance and Benefits . Listed below are the changes that may be adopted by the State Insurance Committee resulting from this act. 1) Employees hired after July 1, 2015 - may not be eligible for pre - 65 retiree health i nsurance. 2) E mployees hired after July 1, 2015 - t he state ma y discontinue offer ing the Medicare Supplement for employees hired after July 1, 2015. Current employees and current Medicare Supplement members will be grandfathered. 3) A fter July 1, 2015, a state or higher education employee working less than, on average, 30 hours/week may no longer eligible for any insurance plan. Current state and higher education employees working 1 , 450 hours or more per year will be grandfathered. 4) choose a different insurance plan if he/she is offered insurance through their employer. 5) T he State and Local Education Insurance Committees may be able to offer a new option -- a defined contribution (i.e., cash payment) toward premium -- in addition to the current def ined benefit for state, higher education and local education employees, elected officials and retirees for continuation coverage at retirement. 6) - t he State Insurance Committee will continue to be required to offer one basic health plan t hat subsidizes at the current level of 80% for the employee and his or her eligible dependents . TBR Human Resources is the new appointee to the State Insurance Committee representing higher education. Attached is the initial public chapters adopted during the 2015 legislative session. This legislation will become effective upon becoming a law. 20 BUSINESS Public Chapter 447 University of Memphis: 30 Mile Radius for In - State Tuition. This act adds students at the University of Memphis who are residents of another state in a county lying immediately adjacent to Shelby county or who have residences within 30 miles of the university to attend without paying out - of - state tuition. The Higher Education Commission formula review committee is reviewing how out - of - state student s will be treated in the future . This legislation will take effect July 1, 2015. Public Chapter 482 TBR Human Resources Memo on 2015 Legislation Observance of Veterans Day. This act would require all public institutions of the University of Tennessee and the Board of Regents system to observe Veterans Day on or near the day recognized as the national day of observance. Any student, faculty, and staff who are veterans will be given the opportunity to participate in the campus observances without adverse action or absence. and other public chapters adopted during the 2015 legislative session. This legislation will take effect upon becoming law. Public Chapter 515 Contracts to include sales tax responsibility for vendors. This act requires that state entities, including TBR, include in any major procurement contract (over $75,000) with a vendor a provision that clarifies the entity responsible for remitting sales an d subcontractor. This legislation will take effect July 1, 2015 and applies to contracts entered into or renewed on or after such date. 21 COMMUNITY COLLEGES AND COLLEGES OF APPLI ED TECHNOLOGY Public Chapter 363 Community College Reconnect Grant. This act create s the Community College Reconnect grant pilot program beginning in the 2016 - 17 academic year for independent students seeking to complete a n associate of applied science degree. The grant is a last dollar scholarship that will pay for tuition and mandatory fees. The 2015 - 16 budget allocated $1.5 million from lottery funds for this pilot program. The act also defi Pell grant and a Tennessee S tudent A ssistance Corporation award and any scholarship or grant funded from net lottery proceeds. In order to be eligible for the Community College Reconnect Grant, a student will have to meet the following criteria: 1. n ot be ineligible for the grant under § 49 - 4 - 904; 2. h ave been a Tennessee resident, as defined by regulations promulgated by the board of regents under § 49 - 8 - 104, for one (1) year immediately prec eding the date of application for the grant; 3. n ot have been enrolled in or attended any postsecondary institution for at least twenty - four (24) months immediately preceding the date of initial enrollment in the Community College Reconnect Grant program; 4. h ave earned a minimum of thirty (30) semester hours toward completion of an associate of applied science degree as determined by the postsecondary institution attended; 5. f ile the FAFSA by March 1 prior to the beginning of each academic year; 6. b e an independ ent student (age 24 or older) as determined by the FAFSA; 7. apply for the grant by filing a Community College Reconnect Grant application as required by TSAC by June 1 prior to the beginning of each academic year; 8. be admitted to and enroll in a public two - year postsecondary institution for the 2016 2017 academic year ; and 9. h ave an adjusted gross income attributable to the student that does not exceed thirty - six thousand dollars ($36,000). 22 COMMUNITY COLLEGES AND COLLEGES OF APPLIED TECHNOLOGY Co mmunity College Reconnect Grant ( continued ). To maintain the grant a student must: e nroll in classes that lead to completion of an associate of applied science degree ; m aintain satisfactory academic progress and a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.0 ; e nroll in at least nine hours per fall and spring semester ; reapply as required each year. This legislation for the purpose of promulgation of the rules will become effective upon becoming a law. For the purpose of amending § 49 - 4 - 923 (Wilder Naifeh Reconnect) , will become effective July 1. 2015. A ll other purposes this legislation will become effective July 1, 2016. 23 GOVERNANCE Public Chapter 444 State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement Act. participation in a state authorization reciprocity agreement (SARA) relative to postsecondary distance education. Under this act, the Tennessee Higher Education Commission (THEC ) is authorized to enter an interstate reciprocity agreement known as SARA, or any successor organization, which serves the purpose of approving institutions in Tennessee to participate in SARA. The Commission can annually collect fees from each Tennessee SARA institution, based on full - time enrollment and commensurate with the cost of administering SARA. Fees collected cannot exceed that charged by the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC - SARA) or any successor organization. In the event that NC - SARA determines to waive or terminate the assessment of fees for participating institutions, then the fees applicable to Tennessee SARA institutions shall be the same as those fees assessed in the prior fiscal year. Institutions in Tennessee that offer distance education may apply to THEC for approval to participate in SARA as a Tennessee SARA institution. By being a SARA institution , it may receive distance education students from other SARA member states without having to go throug h separate state - by - state authorizations. Programs that require state licensing (teaching, nursing, etc.) are not applicable to SARA. A non - Tennessee distance education student who files a complaint against a SARA - approved institution within the TBR or UT system will be referred from THEC to the public higher education system (TBR or UT) for investigation and final resolution. For further information regarding the Southern Regional Education Board who is administering SARA at the regional level: For information on the National C ouncil for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements, see - sara.org/ The Regents Online Campus Collaborative (ROCC) will coordinate the TBR institutional applications for SARA participation. This legislation becomes effective upon passage. 24 LEGAL Public Chapter 80 TBR Human Resources Memo on 2015 Legislation Adverse Employment Against Guns in Trunks. This act states that no employer will discharge or take and adverse employment action against an employee solely for transporting or storing a firearm or firearm ammunition in an employer parking area. 1) An employee discharged, or subject to an adverse employment action under this provision i s entitled to recover economic damages plus reasonable attorney fees and costs. 2) The employee is responsible for establishing a prima facie case of discharge, or a firearm 3) The employee has one (1) year from the date of termination of employment, or the date of adverse employment action, to file a claim. parking area does not by itself constitute a failure by the employer to provide a safe workplace. for updates resulting from this legislation. Attached is the initial guida nce given to adopted during the 2015 legislative session. This legislation becomes effective on July 1, 2015. Publ ic Chapter 169 TBR Human Resources Memo on 2015 Legislation Confidential Job Performance Evaluations. This act makes job performance evaluations confidential and not be open for public inspection for employees of the: Department of Treasury, Comptroller of the Treasury, Secretary of State, and public institutions of higher education. Job evaluations includ es, but are not limited to: job performance evaluations completed by supervisors, communications concerning job performance evaluations, self - evaluations of job performance prepared by employees, job performance evaluation scores, drafts, notes, memoranda , and all other records relating to job performance evaluations. Under this act provisions do not limit access to those records by law enforcement agencies, courts, or other governmental agencies performing official functions. The TBR Director of Communic ations has notified all institutional communications directors that they are no longer required to provide these items to the media or related to a public records request. thi s and other public chapters adopted during the 2015 legislative session. This legislation becomes effective upon passage. 25 LEGAL Public Chapter 240 Operation of Drones. This act makes it a Class C misdemeanor to use an unmanned aircraft to capture an image, without the venue owner and operator's consent, of: an individual or event at an open - air event venue where more tha n 100 individuals could gather; a designated fireworks discharge or dis play site, or a firewor ks fallout area during an event; or the grou nds of a correctional facility. This legislation becomes effective on July 1, 2015. Public Chapter 253 Sexual Assault. This act requires law enforcement, including TBR police forces , to adopt a model policy related to responding to sexually oriented crimes and details the requirements for handling a sexual assault evidence collection kits. Model Policy The Domestic Violence Co ordinating Council will develop a model policy related to the handling of sexual assaults by law enforcement. The model policy shall include guidelines for officers on: 1) investigating reports of sexually oriented crimes; 2) providing victim assistance; 3 ) collaborating with victim advocates, healthcare providers, and victim service agencies; and 4) collecting, storing, and submitting sexual assault evidence kits to the state crime lab or similar qualified laboratory for either serology or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) testing. The model policy shall be distributed to all law enforcement agencies that are likely to encounter reports of sexually oriented crimes on or before January 1, 2016. All law enforcement agencies that are likely to encounter reports of sexually oriented crimes shall establish written policies and procedures on responding to reports of sexually oriented crimes. An agency may adopt the model policy developed by the Domestic Violence State Coordinating Council or an agency may adopt its ow n policy, provided the policy includes the same or higher standards as the model policy developed by the council. Each agency shall adopt its written policy on or before July 1, 2016. Chief Buddy Peaster from MTSU is representing higher education on cre ating the model policy. The Office of General Counsel will work with campuses on the adoption of the model policy to ensure no conflict occurs between other state and federal sexual assault requirements. 26 LEGAL Public Chapter 253 Sexual Assault (Continued). Sexual Assault Evidence Collection Kits Under this act, a victim of a sexually oriented crime is entitled to a forensic medical examination without charge to the victim as provided in § 29 - 13 - 118. Upon the conclusion of the forensic examination, the resulting sexual assault evidence collection kit or hold kit shall be released to a law enforcement agency by a health care provider for storage or transm ission to the state crime lab or other similar qualified laboratory for either serology or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) testing. 1) If an adult victim elects not to report the alleged offense to police at the time of the forensic medical examination, the sexual assault evidence collection kit becomes a hold kit, and the healthcare provider shall assign a number to identify the kit rather than use the victim's name. The hold kit shall be released to the appropriate law enforcement agency for storage. If an adult victim reports the alleged offense to the police, or the victim is a minor, the healthcare provider shall attach the victim's name to the sexual assault evidence collection kit, and it shall be released to the appropriate law enforcement agency. 2) The law enforcement agency shall, within sixty (60) days of taking possession of the sexual assault evidence collection kit or within sixty (60) days from the date of the police report, shall affix the victim's name to the kit and submit the kit to the Ten nessee bureau of investigation or similar qualified laboratory for either serology or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) testing. Upon receipt of a hold kit with only an identification number attached to it, the law enforcement agency shall store the hold kit for a minimum of three (3) years or until the victim makes a police report, whichever event occurs first. However, no hold kit shall be submitted to the state crime lab or similar laboratory for testing until the victim has made a police report. This legisla tion becomes takes effect upon becoming law. 27 LEGAL Public Chapter 272 Cooperative Purchasing Agreements. Under this act public higher education institutions are specifically given authority to participate in, sponsor, conduct, or administer a cooperative purchasing agreement for the procurement of goods or services with one (1) or more other states or local governments in accordance with an agreement entered into between the participants. All cooperative purchasing conducted must be awarded through full and open competition. a solicitation, an award, or a proposed award of a contract. - 3 - 201, who has filed a protest. Any respondent who has submitted a response to a solicitation and who claims to b e aggrieved in connection with the solicitation, award, or proposed award of a contract may protest to the chief procurement officer. The act changes when a protest shall be submitted in writing to within seven (7) calendar days after the notice of the aw ard or intent to award the contract is issued. This act also states that a stay of the solicitation, award, or proposed award shall be in effect until the protest is resolved. Prior law required the protesting party to request a stay. This act also says th at the stay is not lifted unless, after giving the protesting party and opportunity to be heard, the chief procurement officer or protest committee makes a written determination that continuation of the procurement is necessary. As previously required, t he protesting party must submit a protest bond simultaneously with the protest. What changes under this act is the addition of ways to determine the amount of the bond required to: f ive percent (5%) of the lowest bid or cost proposal evaluated; f ive percen t (5%) of the maximum liability or estimated maximum liability provided in the solicitation ; f ive percent (5%) of the estimated maximum revenue, the state would receive revenue under the solicitation, award or proposed award; or a n amount determine by the chief procurement officer for no - cost contracts. The act clarifies additional situat ions when the protesting party must surrender the bond to the state to now include five circumstances: 1) the protest was signed, before or after appeal to the chief procureme nt officer or protest committee; 2) the protest was brought or pursued in bad faith; 3) the state agency impacted suffered damages resulting in a loss of funding, increased expenditures, or a disruption in services because the protest was filed in bad faith and not upheld; 4) the protest did not state on its face a valid basis for protest; or 5) for any other reason approved by the protest committee. 28 LEGAL Public Chapter 272 Cooperative Purchasing Agreements (Continued). the procurement of goods and services. This act now states that all respondents to the solicitation have to have an equal opportunity to request a limitation of liabili ty. This act clarifies the limit of liability must be an amount less than two (2) times the maximum liability, estimated liability, or maximum revenue of a contract unless the rest for the amount to be higher or lower. This act adds two circumstances to existing law when a limitation of liability in a contract with the state shall not apply. This includes liability for intellectual property infringement or claims covered by an y specific contractual provision that provides for liquidated damages. This legislation becomes effective upon passage. Public Chapter 335 Racial Profiling Prevention Act. This act requires e ach state and local law enforcement agency, including a university police department, to adopt, on or before January 1, 2016 a written policy that prohibits racial profiling. "Racial profiling" is the detention or interdiction of an individual in traffic contacts, field contacts, or asset seizure and forfeiture efforts solely on the basis of the individual's actual or perceived race, color, ethnicity, or national origin. a nd adoption. This legislation becomes effective upon passage. Public Chapter 515 Contracts to include sales tax responsibility for vendors. This act requires that state entities, including TBR, include in any major procurement contract (over $75,000) with a vendor a provision that clarifies the entity responsible for remitting sales and use taxes on sales and good or services made by the vendo subcontractor. This legislation will take effect July 1, 2015 and applies to contracts entered into or renewed on or after such date. 29 LOTTERY SCHOLARSHIP AND NEED - BASED AID Public Chapter 186 Revisions of the Tennessee Promise Act of 2014. The act serves to make statutory changes to address the implications from the Tennessee Promise Act of 2014. The main provisions of these statutory changes are listed below. (1) "Full - time student" is defined in this act as a student who is enrolled in a minimum of twelve (12) semester hours, or a student who is enrolled in a full - time program at a Tennessee college of applied tech nology. if clarified in this act to mean financial aid received from the federal Pell grant, the Tennessee education lottery scholarship, or the Tennessee student assistance award . Gift aid comes before Tennessee Promise funding. (3) "Eligible postsecondary program" is explained for associat e degrees a t four - year schools to mean a curriculum of courses leading to a certificate, diploma, or associate degree at an eligible postsecondary institution. Courses taken at a four - year posts econdary institution prior to admission in, or that fulfill prerequisite requirements for, an eligible postsecondary program shall not be considered part of the eligible postsecondary program. (4) Exceptions to initial enrollment requirements may be made for students not directly admitted into an eligible postsecondary program at a four - year institution and for extenuating circumstances as provided in rules promulgated by the Tennessee Student Assistance Corporation (TSAC) . ( 5 ) The act allows for TSAC to promulgate rules for circumstances when a Tennessee ( 6 ) The act clarifies when e ligib ility for the Tennessee Promise scholarship ends with the occurrence of the first of the following events: a. t he student has earned a diploma or associate degree; or b. t he student has attended an eligible postsecondary institution as a T ennessee Promise scholarship student for five ( 5) semesters if the institution is on semester system, or its equivalent if t he institution is on a system other than a semester system. Such semester limit shall n ot include an approved leave of absence. (7) In order to keep the Tennessee Promise scholarship, a student shall maintain continuous enrollment as a full - time student in each semester while receiving the scholarship. That act clarifies that the requirement of c ontinuous enrollment does not apply to a Tennessee Promise sc holarship student who is on a medical or personal leave, as approved by the student's eligible postsecondary institution. ( 8 ) The act also explains that a Tennessee Promise scholarship student may enroll in fewer than twelve (12) semester hours if require d by the academic program in which the student is enrolled. (Example, a student in the last semester of school may need only six credit hours to graduate with the degree sought.) This legislation becomes effective on July 1, 2015. 30 LOTTERY SCHOLARSHIP AND NEED - BASED AID Public Chapter 363 Community College Reconnect Grant. This act will create the Community College Reconnect grant pilot program beginning in the 2016 - 17 academic year for independent students seeking to complete as associate of applied science degree. The grant is a last dollar scholarship that will pay for tuition and mandatory fees. The 2015 - 16 budget allocated $1.5 million from lottery funds for this pilot program. T e Wilder Naifeh reconnect grant as the federal Pell grant and a Tennessee student assistance award and any scholarship or grant funded from net lottery proceeds. In order to be eligible for the Community College Reconn ect Grant, a student will have to meet the following criteria: 1. n ot be ineligible for the grant under § 49 - 4 - 904; 2. h ave been a Tennessee resident, as defined by regulations promulgated by the board of regents under § 49 - 8 - 104, for one (1) year immediately preceding the date of application for the grant; 3. n ot have been enrolled in or attended any postsecondary institution for at least twenty - four (24) months immediately preceding the date of initial enrollment in the Community College Reconnect Grant program ; 4. h ave earned a minimum of thirty (30) semester hours toward completion of an associate of applied science degree as determined by the postsecondary institution attended; 5. f ile the FAFSA by March 1 prior to the beginning of each academic year; 6. b e an inde pendent student (age 24 or older) as determined by the FAFSA; 7. a pply for the grant by filing a Community College Reconnect Grant application as required by TSAC by June 1 prior to the beginning of each academic year; 8. f or the 2016 2017 academic year, be a dmitted to and enroll in a public two - year postsecondary institution; and 9. h ave an adjusted gross income attributable to the student that does not exceed thirty - six thousand dollars ($36,000). 31 LOTTERY SCHOLARSHIP AND NEED - BASED AID Co mmunity College Reconnect Grant ( continued ). To maintain the grant a student must: e nroll in classes that lead to completion of an associate of applied science degree ; m aintain satisfactory academic progress and a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.0 ; e nroll in at least nine hours per fall and spring semester ; reapply as required each year. This legislation for the purpose of promulgation of the rules will become effective upon becoming a law. For the purpose of amending § 49 - 4 - 923 (Wilder Naifeh Reconne ct) , will become effective July 1. 2015. A ll other purposes this legislation will become effective July 1, 2016. Public Chapter 491 Military Child HOPE Scholarship Recipient. This act clarifie s that a child of a military or national guard parent is eligible for the Tennessee HOPE scholarship as long as the other scholarship requirements are met along with the criteria below . 1. A d ependent child of a member of the armed forces or Tennessee national guard whose parent s home of record , at the time of entry into military service, were determined to be Tennessee; or 2. A dependent child of member of the armed forces or Tennessee national guard qualif ies to be classified as an in - state student under regulations promulgated by the board of regents pursuant to § 49 - 8 - 104, at the time of enrollment in the eligible postsecondary institution. ( new section added to code ) This legislation becomes effective upon passage and applies to students in the 2015 - 16 year and academic years thereafter . 32 LOTTERY SCHOLARSHIP AND NEED - BASED AID Public Chapter 495 HiSET HOPE Scholarship Recipients. This act changes the eligible scor e of the GED ® test to reflect the and add s the HiSET ® as an additional approved high school equivalency test that can qualify a student for the HOP E s cholarship . This act also retroactively provides for the HOPE sc holarship for students negatively impacted in the 2013 - 14 and 2014 - 15 academic years because the statute did not reflect the new scoring for the GED ® or acceptance of the HiSET ® test. Under this act, a student is eligible for the HOPE lottery scholarship if he or she : 1. is a Tennessee resident for at least one year prior to obtaining a GED® or HiSET® ; 2. score s at least an average score of 525 on the GED® or an average score of at least 170 on the revised GED® , or has scored at least a 15 average score on the HiSET ®; 3. ob tain s a composite ACT score of at least 21 or a combined SAT score of at least 980 ; 4. meets the requirements of § 49 - 4 - 905; and 5. is not ineligible under § 49 - 4 - 904. A student who either scored high enough on the revise d scoring of the GED ® or HiSET ® and, after January 1, 2014, met the requirement s for the HOPE scholarship will be awarded a Tennessee HOPE scholarship in the 2014 - 2015 academic year for the 2013 - 2014 academic year as long as the student met the following provisions: w as not ineligible for the scholarship under § 49 - 4 - 904 and met the requirements of § 49 - 4 - 905 in the 2013 2014 academic year while enrolled at an eligible institution ; d id not receive the Tennessee HOPE scholarship in the 2013 2014 academic year ; and wa s enrolled in the 2014 2015 academic year in an eligible postsecondary institution . This legislation becomes effective on July 1, 2015. 33 SAFETY AND SECURITY Public Chapter 42 Reporting of Security Breach. This act requires any state agency, including TBR, to notify the Comptroller of the Treasury of any confirmed or suspected unauthorized acquisition of computerized data or breach of a computer information system within no more than five working days. A b reach does not include an individual occurrences of malware or spyware. For the purposes of this act, computer information system and related security system mean those computer information systems and security system infrastructures operated and admin istered by the state agency or an entity with which the state agency contracts for such operations and administration. - wide Audit is working with the Comptroller and TBR institutions to coordinate the reporting mechanism related to this act. This legislation becomes effective upon passage. Public Chapter 80 TBR Human Resources Memo on 2015 Legislation Adverse Employment Against Guns in Trunks. This act states that no employer will discharge or take and adverse employment action against an employee solely for transporting or storing a firearm or firearm ammunition in an employer parking area. 1) An employee discharged, or subject to an adverse employment action under this provision is entitled to recover economic damages plus reasonable attorney fees and costs. 2) The employee is responsible for establishing a prima f acie case of discharge, or 3) The employee has one (1) year from the date of termination of employment, or the date of adverse employment action, to file a claim. not by itself constitute a failure by the employer to provide a safe workplace. is revi ewing existing policies and campus guidance for updates resulting from this legislation. Attached is the initial guidance given to Director s of Human Resources related to this and other public chapters adopted during the 2015 legislative session. T his legislation becomes effective on July 1, 2015. Public Chapter 240 Operation of Drones. This act makes it a Class C misdemeanor to use an unmanned aircraft to capture an image, without the venue owner and operator's consent, of: an individual or event at an open - air event venue where more tha n 100 individuals could gather; a designated fireworks discharge or display site, or a firewor ks fallout area during an event; or the grou nds of a correctional facility. This legislation becomes effective on July 1, 2015. 34 SAFETY AND SECURITY Public Chapter 253 Sexual Assault . This act requires law enforcement, including TBR police forces , to adopt a model policy related to responding to sexually oriented crimes and details the requirements for handling a sexual assault evidence collection kit s . Model Policy The Domestic Violence Coordinating Council will develop a model policy rela ted to the handling of sexual assaults by law enforcement. The model policy shall include guidelines for officers on: 1) investigating reports of sexually oriented crimes; 2) providing victim assistance; 3) collaborating with victim advocates, healthcare p roviders, and victim service agencies; and 4) collecting, storing, and submitting sexual assault evidence kits to the state crime lab or similar qualified laboratory for either serology or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) testing. The model policy shall be dis tributed to all law enforcement agencies that are likely to encounter reports of sexually oriented crimes on or before January 1, 2016. All law enforcement agencies that are likely to encounter reports of sexually oriented crimes shall establish written p olicies and procedures on responding to reports of sexually oriented crimes. An agency may adopt the model policy developed by the D omestic V iolence S tate C oordinating C ouncil or an agency may adopt its own policy, provided the policy includes the same or higher standards as the model policy developed by the council. Each agency shall adopt its written policy on or before July 1, 2016. Chief Buddy Peaster from MTSU is representing higher education on creating the model policy. The Office of General Counsel will work with campuses on the adoption of the model policy to ensure no conflict occurs between other state and federal sexual assault requirements. 35 SAFETY A ND SECURITY Public Chapter 253 Sexual Assault (Continued). Sexual Assault Evidence Collection Kits Under this act, a victim of a sexually oriented crime is entitled to a forensic medical examination without charge to the victim as provided in § 29 - 13 - 118. Upon the conclusion of the forensic examination, the resulting sexual assault evidence collection k it or hold kit shall be released to a law enforcement agency by a health care provider for storage or transmission to the state crime lab or other similar qualified laboratory for either serology or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) testing. 1) If an adult vic tim elects not to report the alleged offense to police at the time of the forensic medical examination, the sexual assault evidence collection kit becomes a hold kit, and the healthcare provider shall assign a number to identify the kit rather than use the victim's name. The hold kit shall be released to the appropriate law enforcement agency for storage. If an adult victim reports the alleged offense to the police, or the victim is a minor, the healthcare provider shall attach the victim's name to the sexu al assault evidence collection kit, and it shall be released to the appropriate law enforcement agency. 2) The law enforcement agency shall, within sixty (60) days of taking possession of the sexual assault evidence collection kit or within sixty (60) day s from the date of the police report, shall affix the victim's name to the kit and submit the kit to the Tennessee bureau of investigation or similar qualified laboratory for either serology or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) testing. Upon receipt of a hold ki t with only an identification number attached to it, the law enforcement agency shall store the hold kit for a minimum of three (3) years or until the victim makes a police report, whichever event occurs first. However, no hold kit shall be submitted to th e state crime lab or similar laboratory for testing until the victim has made a police report. This legislation becomes takes effect upon becoming law. Public Chapter 335 Racial Profiling Prevention Act. This act requires each state and local law enforcement agency, including a university police department, to adopt, on or before January 1, 2016 a written policy th at prohibits racial profiling. "Racial profiling" is the detention or interdiction of an individual in traffic contacts, field contacts, or asset seizure and forfeiture efforts solely on the basis of the individual's actual or perceived race, color, ethnicity, or national origin. TB development and adoption . This legislation becomes effective upon passage. STUDENT AFFAIRS No P ublic Chapter Immunization. TBR did not move forward with legislation filed related to immunization this year . Instead, TBR and the Tennessee Department of Health are holding a series of meetings to determine changes to the immunization process for college students that decrease the barrier for students and college administrators, while p reserving public health. TBR General Counsel, Mary Moody; TBR Assistant Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs, Heidi Leming; and Director of Admissions and College Registrar and Volunteer State, Tim Amyx, represent TBR in these meetings. 36 STUDENT AFFAIRS Public Chapter 219 Section 702 Fact Sheet Tennessee Veterans Education Transition Support Act. This act aligns state statute 702. Specifically, this act provides in - state tuition to a veteran, or any individual enti tled to the veteran's educational benefits (spouse or child) who is enrolled in any public institution of higher education in this state if the veteran or the eligible individual: (1) is eligible for post - 9/11 GI Bill benefits or Montgomery GI Bill benefit s; and (2) enrolls in a public institution of higher education, after satisfying all admission requirements, within three years from the date of discharge as reflected on the veteran's certificate of release or discharge from active duty, Form DD - 214, or an equivalent document. In order to continue to qualify for in - state tuition and fees after three years have passed from the date of discharge, an eligible student shall: (1) Maintain continuous enrollment as defined by the public institution of higher education at which the student is enrolled; and (2) Demonstrate objective evidence of established residency in this state by presenting at least two of the following: proof of (a) voter registration in this state, (c) Tennessee motor vehicle registration, (d) proof of established employment in this state; or (e) other documentation clearly evidencing domicile or residence in the state, as determined by THEC. The Executive Director of the Tennessee Higher Educati on Commission shall convene representatives from the University of Tennessee and the Tennessee Board of Regents systems to identify and develop uniform methods to assess and maximize academic credit awarded by public institutions of higher education to vet erans and military service members for military experience, education, and training obtained during military service. By September 1, 2016, the University of Tennessee and the Tennessee Board of Regents adopt or revise policies relating to the assessment a nd award of academic credit for military education, training, or service. TBR Office of Academic Affairs has notified TBR enrollment services staff of this change and will coordinate the ongoing implementation of Public Chapter 219. This legislation becomes effective upon passage. 37 STUDENT AFFAIRS Public Chapter 253 Sexual Assault. This act requires law enforcement, including TBR police forces , to adopt a model policy related to responding to sexually oriented crimes and details the requirements for handling a sexual assault evidence collection kits. Model Policy The Domestic Violence Coordinating Council will develop a model policy related to the handling of sexual assaults by law enforcement. The model policy shall include guidelines for officers on: 1) investigating reports of sexually oriented crimes; 2) providing victim assistance; 3) collaborating with victim advocates, healthcare provider s, and victim service agencies; and 4) collecting, storing, and submitting sexual assault evidence kits to the state crime lab or similar qualified laboratory for either serology or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) testing. The model policy shall be distribute d to all law enforcement agencies that are likely to encounter reports of sexually oriented crimes on or before January 1, 2016. All law enforcement agencies that are likely to encounter reports of sexually oriented crimes shall establish written policies and procedures on responding to reports of sexually oriented crimes. An agency may adopt the model policy developed by the Domestic Violence State Coordinating Council or an agency may adopt its own policy, provided the policy includes the same or higher standards as the model policy developed by the council. Each agency shall adopt its written policy on or before July 1, 2016. Chief Buddy Peaster from MTSU is representing higher education on creating the model policy. The Office of General Counsel will work with campuses on the adoption of the model policy to ensure no conflict occurs between other state and federal sexual assault requirements. 38 STUDENT AFFAIRS Sexual Assault (Continued). Sexual Assault Evidence Collection Kits Under this act, a victim of a sexually oriented crime is entitled to a forensic medical examination without charge to the victim as provided in § 29 - 13 - 118. Upon the conclusion of the forensic examination, the resulting sexual assault evidence collection k it or hold kit shall be released to a law enforcement agency by a health care provider for storage or transmission to the state crime lab or other similar qualified laboratory for either serology or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) testing. 1) If an adult vic tim elects not to report the alleged offense to police at the time of the forensic medical examination, the sexual assault evidence collection kit becomes a hold kit, and the healthcare provider shall assign a number to identify the kit rather than use the victim's name. The hold kit shall be released to the appropriate law enforcement agency for storage. If an adult victim reports the alleged offense to the police, or the victim is a minor, the healthcare provider shall attach the victim's name to the sexu al assault evidence collection kit, and it shall be released to the appropriate law enforcement agency. 2) The law enforcement agency shall, within sixty (60) days of taking possession of the sexual assault evidence collection kit or within sixty (60) day s from the date of the police report, shall affix the victim's name to the kit and submit the kit to the Tennessee bureau of investigation or similar qualified laboratory for either serology or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) testing. Upon receipt of a hold ki t with only an identification number attached to it, the law enforcement agency shall store the hold kit for a minimum of three (3) years or until the victim makes a police report, whichever event occurs first. However, no hold kit shall be submitted to th e state crime lab or similar laboratory for testing until the victim has made a police report. This legislation becomes takes effect upon becoming law. Public Chapter 260 Reporting of Nonimmigrant Students. This act requires that each institution that accepts nonimmigrant students possessing either an F - 1 or M - 1 student visa shall report to the TN Department of Safety the following information: the number of nonimmigrant students enroll ed at the institution at the beginning and end of each period of study. The department, in consultation with the Tennessee Higher Education Commission, shall develop a form that shall be available to institutions for reporting purposes. The TBR Office of Research and Assessment will coordinate the collection and submission of this information. This legislation becomes effective upon passage and shall apply to instruction beginning on or after August 1, 2015. 39 STUDENT AFFAIRS Public Chapter 482 TBR Human Resources Memo on 2015 Legislation Observance of Veterans Day. This act would require all public institutions of the University of Tennessee and the Board of Regents system to observe Veterans Day on or near the day recognized as the national day of observance. Any student, faculty, and staff who are veterans will be given the opportunity to participate in the campus observances without adverse action or absence. this and other public chapters adopted during the 2015 legislative session . This legislation will take effect upon becoming law.