#http://www.memphis.edu/gradcatalog/degree_planning/bus/econ.php
Economics - Graduate Catalog - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Continue to positively impact American education so every student recieves optimal teaching and learning, every day." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. Graduate Catalog Home About Admissions Academic Regulations Faculty and Staff Archive Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Home Graduate Catalog Degree Planning Economics Economics WILLIAM T. SMITH, PhD Chair Room 400, Fogelman Admin Building 901.678.2785 ALBERT OKUNADE, PhD PhD Program Coordinator Room 450, Fogelman Admin Building 901.678.2672 aokunade@memphis.edu ANDREW HUSSEY, PhD Master’s Program Coordinator Room 423, Fogelman Admin Building 901.678.1487 ajhussey@memphis.edu I. In the Department of Economics , qualified students may work toward the MA degree with a major in Economics or the PhD degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Economics. NOTE: Every graduate student must comply with the general requirements of the Graduate School (see Admissions Regulations , Academic Regulations , and Minimum Degree Requirements ) and the program requirements of the degree being pursued. II. MA Degree Program Program objectives are: (1) achievement of a solid foundation knowledge in economic theory and economic analysis; (2) acquisition of an advanced level of knowledge in either applied economics or academic economics; (3) acquisition of the quantitative skills to effectively address research problems and the ability to make significant professional contributions as a professional economist or within a functional area of business; and (4) ability to compete effectively for professional positions in the private or public sectors A. Program Admission Satisfactory performance on the Graduate Record Examination (Satisfactory performance on the Graduate Management Admission Test may be acceptable with approval of the coordinator of the master's program.) Satisfactory undergraduate grade point average. B. Program Prerequisites Students should have successfully completed or complete ECON 3310, Microeconomic Theory; ECON 3320, Macroeconomic Theory; SCMS 2710 and 3711, Business Statistics I and II (SCMS 7020 is an acceptable substitute for SCMS 2710 and 3711); ECON 6810 or equivalent. C. Program Requirements Each candidate has the choice of taking a written, comprehensive examination or writing a thesis at the end of course work. Regardless of which option is chosen, 15 hours of the student’s course work must be devoted to the following: ECON 7120, 7300, 7310, 7320, and 7810. Examination Option: Each candidate must complete a minimum of 33 semester hours of graduate course work, exclusive of MA program prerequisite courses and MBA Essential Foundations courses. The 33 hours must include a minimum of 21 hours of approved course work in Economics. The remaining 12 hours, with approval of the department graduate advisor, may be taken in collateral courses. At least 24 hours must be in courses designated for graduate students (7000 level or above). Each candidate must pass a written examination in microeconomic theory and macroeconomic theory. A maximum of two attempts within a year of the first attempt is permitted. Thesis Option: Each candidate must complete a minimum of 30 semester hours of graduate course work, exclusive of MA program prerequisite courses, MBA Essential Foundations courses, and Thesis Hours. The 30 hours must include a minimum of 18 hours of approved course work in Economics. The remaining 12 hours, with approval of the department graduate advisor, may be taken in collateral courses. At least 21 hours must be in courses designated for graduate students (7000 level or above). Each student will register for at least 3 hours (and not more than 6 hours), write and defend a thesis under the guidance of a faculty committee. A student who fails to complete the thesis after having registered for the maximum degree credit allowable must register for thesis credit each academic semester until the thesis is completed. NOTE: Students electing to write a thesis should familiarize themselves with the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide before starting to write. D. Accelerated M.A. Program in Economics This program permits outstanding undergraduate majors in Business Economics (B.B.A.) or Economics (B.A.) to begin coursework for the M.A. in Economics during their senior year. Students interested in this accelerated program are encouraged to begin planning for it early in their undergraduate careers, in consultation with both their undergraduate advisor and the M.A. Coordinator of the Department of Economics. To be accepted into the Accelerated M.A. Program, students must have a grade point average of at least 3.25, and must submit two letters of reference and a copy of their transcript to the Department of Economics. Each applicant will also complete an interview with the M.A. Coordinator of the Department. After being accepted into the program, the student will work closely with his or her undergraduate advisor and the M.A. Coordinator in order to develop a carefully tailored program of study so that he or she can begin work on the M.A. as they complete their undergraduate degree. Students must also apply to the Graduate School for “combination status,” which allows them to take graduate courses in Economics. To continue the Program once they have completed the B.B.A or B.A., students must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the M.A. Program in Economics. Up to 9 hours of graduate coursework may be applied to both the Bachelor's and the M.A. degrees in Economics. III. PhD Program The objective of the PhD in Business Administration with a concentration in Economics is to prepare candidates for a successful academic or professional career in economics and business. Through an intensive, advanced level training in both economics theory and quantitative methods, students learn to conduct independent research and prepare for various responsibilities of a professional career. The Economics Department has an outstanding faculty with a strong orientation in applied as well as theoretical research. For admission, program content, and financial aid information, see the departmental website at: economics.memphis.edu/acad_index.html Click here for course descriptions Degree Planning Minimum Degree Requirements Degree Programs Graduate Catalog Learn more about our degree programs. Graduate School 2015-2016 Academic Calendar Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/9/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .