#http://www.memphis.edu/shs/programs/nutrition_science.php
Nutrition Science - SHS - University of Memphis Lambuth Campus myMemphis Webmail Faculty &amp; Staff Contact Directories Search Academics Welcome Colleges &amp; Schools Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Honors Program Admissions Welcome Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Law Students International Students Athletics Welcome Ticket Information Intramurals Rec Center gotigersgo.com Research Welcome Research Resources Centers/Chairs of Excellence Centers and Institutes Research Portal Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Welcome Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Libraries Welcome Resources Services Special Collections Ask a Librarian Resources for... Prospective Students Current and Returning Students Parents Alumni Veterans Expand Menu Learn About the Admissions Process Learn how to apply for admission to the UofM. Schedule a Visit Tours offered weekdays at 9:30 am &amp; 1:30 pm. True Blue Tiger We want YOU to be a Tiger. Scholarships and Financial Aid Apply for assistance and academic scholarships. Undergraduate Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Get an early start on your application. Graduate Applications Step Up: Start a Masters or PhD today. Law Applications Fall 2016 Deadline: Mar 16 Experience Memphis Law. International Applications Spring Deadline: Dec 15 Receive a world-class education. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Registration Register for classes or edit your schedule. Student Services Experience college life beyond the classroom. Student Organizations Get engaged. Get involved. Experience more. Majors and Minors Find your calling with over 50 degree programs. Course Schedule View class offerings for the current and upcoming terms. Academic Calendars Mark your calendar for start days, breaks and final exams. Academic Support Services Improve your academic success. Lambuth Campus Advancing the University's mission in West Tennessee. "Most proud of my accomplishment of graduating with a degree in accounting in three years with Summa Cum Laude and Honors." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) eNews and Signup Stay up-to-date with the UofM. Parent and Family Events Join us for events held just for you! FAQs Have a question? We have answers! Connect With Us We are here to help you help your student. Scholarships &amp; Financial Aid We can help your student attend the UofM. Student Services Resources to help your student succeed. Campus Card Add money to your student's card for books and food. Give to UofM Your gift to the Parent Fund makes the UofM a better place. "To work with a non-profit organization that will allow me to utilize my servant leadership skills and caring ability to further enhance the socioeconomic needs of both domestic and foreign citizens." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Join Now Be True Blue and join the Alumni Association. Update Your Information Receive University updates and the Memphis magazine. Clubs and Chapters Get involved and stay connected to the UofM. Make a Gift Your contribution can make a difference. Lambuth Chapter Lambuth Graduates: Reconnect with fellow alumni. Upcoming Events Mark your calendar for these upcoming events. Photo Gallery View annual collections of the Alumni Association Photo Gallery. News Stay up-to-date with Memphis Matters. "Being the first one in my family to attend college." READ MORE (fa fa-angle-right) Veterans Resource Center Supporting the transition from military life to civilian life. Veterans Benefits and Certifications Learn about Veterans Educational Benefits and Certifications. Get Credits Toward your Degree Receive college credit for military experience, skills, and training. Online Degree Programs Top provider of more than 50 online degree programs. See his story: Vietnam veteran Michael Sasseen completed his degree by earning Experiential Learning Credit (ELC) from his past experiences authoring a book and working with war veterans with PTSD. School of Health Studies About Programs Students Faculty Research Centers News Contact SHS Programs Undergraduate Dietetics Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Graduate Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Nutrition Science Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Commerce Home SHS Programs Nutrition Science Nutrition Science (MS) The Nutritional Science concentration provides individuals with an excellent opportunity to pursue their interests in understanding the roles of nutrition in health and disease, development and aging, and in athletic performance. The objective of the Nutrition Science program is to ensure that our graduates obtain an advanced and comprehensive education in nutrition along with research training that includes experimental design and analysis, laboratory skills, and experiences in scientific writing and presentations. Interdisciplinary opportunities exist with faculty in biological sciences, chemistry and biochemistry, exercise and sport science, and psychology, as well as with faculty at other institutions within the Memphis area. Students have opportunities to study the influences of nutrition at levels of organization ranging from genes to intact organisms. Although many students will have an interest in human nutrition, there are also opportunities to study the nutrition of companion, exotic, and production animals. The master’s degree in Nutrition Science is a 33-credit hour program that offers a diversity of courses so students can develop a curriculum that is matched to their specific interests. A research project culminating in a formal thesis is required. Students entering the program will need to identify a research advisor who will assist in forming a graduate committee that will provide guidance in identifying courses and will assist in the design, performance, analysis, and interpretation of their research. Students completing the degree program will be well-prepared for advanced graduate study (PhD or MD), as well as for employment opportunities in academics, private industry, or government. Moreover, the multidisciplinary training available will position graduates of the program to be leaders in the field of nutrition. The research project students will complete typifies the motto of the University of Memphis: Dreamers: Students are expected to develop with their advisor and committee a research project that is novel and will add to nutrition knowledge. Thinkers: Students will need to think about the design and performance of their research and the analysis and interpretation of their findings. Doers: Importantly, students must be active participants in all phases of their research. Nutrition is a broad field that spans multiple disciplines. Similarly, students entering the Nutrition Science program may have had previous training in various fields, bringing a diversity of backgrounds, expertise, and experiences. We are not searching for students with specific backgrounds. Instead, we are looking for students who want to be innovative, have a desire to learn, want to explore new areas of study, and to become leaders in the field of nutrition. We invite applications from all such students Applicants must have a minimum of a bachelor’s degree with some coursework in fields of study relevant to biological, chemical, or nutritional sciences. Applicants will be selected for admission to the program based on a combination of grade point average, graduate record examination (GRE) scores within the past five years, a narrative statement that includes career goals, and letters of reference. Degree Sheet SHS Programs Undergraduate Dietetics Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Graduate Clinical Nutrition Environmental Nutrition Exercise and Sport Science Health Promotion Nutrition Science Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Commerce Apply Submit your application today Undergraduate Advising We’re always here to help Graduate Advising Faculty advisors aid in your success Degree Sheets Review the courses you’ll be taking Full sitemap Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Scholarship &amp; Financial Aid Tuition &amp; Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Course Schedule Financial Aid Graduation Honors Program eCourseware Athletics Gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Recruits Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Sponsored Programs Research Resources Centers &amp; Institutes Chairs of Excellence FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Year of Service Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business &amp; Finance Career Opportunities Conference &amp; Event Services Development Office Government Relations Information Technology Services Media and Marketing Student Affairs Follow UofM Online Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest LinkedIn Text Only Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright 2015 University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/5/15 University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies: Latosha Dexter, Interim Director for Institutional Equity. For more information see University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action .