#http://blogs.memphis.edu/srtechteam/
Senior Technology Team | Hello! My name is Deji. I am an undergraduate Biology major of the Arts and Science Department here at the U of M. Main menu Skip to content Home Sample Page Senior Technology Team Hello! My name is Deji. I am an undergraduate Biology major of the Arts and Science Department here at the U of M. Search for: Nov 03 2015 Spring 2016 Registration Posted by Ayodeji Olusanya Hello Seniors, If you haven&#8217;t seen your adviser, now is the time to schedule a meeting with them for spring registration. As seniors, we are able to register for classes as soon as November 10th. Once you have met with your adviser, when Nov 10th rolls around, you will be able to register for classes through your myMemphis portal. In the student tab, under the registration tools box, you can look up classes and their schedules and add or remove classes from your schedule. You are also able to look at you full schedule and print it out once you&#8217;ve made all your changes. With a month of school left, finals are quickly approaching. No need to wait till a week before the exam to start cramming. Find a group of dedicated students to study with and schedule collaboration rooms for yourselves. Collaboration rooms can be found in the Tech Hub in the UC and McWherther Library. If being a lone wolf is your thing, no worries. The McWherther Library and Tech Hub are quiet places to study. Study Tips: *Don&#8217;t stay up all night! Sleep and snack well. *Create a study schedule! Don’t study the same material for hours and hours. Study one subject, then 30 minutes later, study something else or take a break. When you get back to what you started with, your brain will be slightly refreshed and ready to pick up where you left off. One final push Seniors, don&#8217;t let senioritis take over. Remember to register on the 10th of November and if you have any questions, you can contact ITS Service Desk at 678-8888, and we will be happy to help. -Deji Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Oct 27 2015 Service Desk Support System Posted by Ayodeji Olusanya Hello, I know many of us are graduating this winter and are applying to graduate school and are into process of developing our résumé. Click here  to learn more about how to make a professional résumé. For those of us who are going straight to work after graduating, Wilder Tower 400 has a department called Career Services. Career Services offers numerous resources for your career search, whether its help developing a resume or polishing your interview skills. Career Services also has a new Tigerlink system that provides current students and graduate students with access to job and intership listings, career fair information, on-campus interview schedules, and practice interviews. Students can access the TigerLink via the  CURRENT STUDENT LOGIN  web page and use your myMemphis unsername and password. Graduate students need to contact career services at  careerservices@memphis.edu   to have your TigerLink account created. Technology is in every aspect of our daily lives. Some of us wouldn&#8217;t even know what to do without our technology. The more we rely on technology, the more likely we are to run into tech-glitches. Our ITS Service Desk provides 24/7 technical support to the university community. The Service Desk can be reached at : 901.678.8888 &#8211; Technical Support by phone 24/7 Technology Hub located in UC 265 is open for use 24/7 McWherter Lab located on the first floor of the McWherter Library (open during Library hours) Lambuth Lab, located in Wilder Student Union Room 006 Also, the ITS Service Desk provides chat and walk-in assistance Monday through Friday 8:00 am – 7:00 pm in Administration Building 100. Remember, the last day to apply for graduation for undergraduates are : Summer 2015 April 08, 2015 Fall 2015 July 15, 2015 Spring 2016 Nov. 11, 2015 Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Oct 06 2015 Stay focused Posted by Ayodeji Olusanya Fall break is quickly approaching and so are midterms. These can be trying times. As a senior, I know how hard these undergraduate classes can be. The university offers several free tutoring services in several courses for its students. University student can get tutoring in Gen. Ed courses, History, Social Sciences, Biological and Chemical sciences, and Foreign Languages. For the student who are planing on taking an online class, one-on-one group training is available. Students in a groups can reserve Collaborations rooms in the University Tech Hub and can also use the Study rooms at the McWherter Library. Remember that there are also many study halls located on campus other than the Tech Hub or the library. Many of the departments will have study room for students to use. Be sure to take advantage of all these resources. Studying for exams can be a little overwhelming, and trying to memorize too much material can be hard to remember. Here are a few ways that could help you stay on track during these most trying of times: 1) Making a schedule with specific times to study. This will allow you to plan your time well. You will have time allotted for studying, for rest, and for class. 2) Create a study group. Finding students that are studying the same material could help you get notes that you don&#8217;t have and could help the other students. Studying with other students can give more perspective on the subject. Students can reserve study rooms in the library and collaboration rooms in the Tech Hub. 3) Revisit material that you have already read. This can make sure that you understand how the problem works (learning)  rather than memorizing  it and having experience. Below are some additional resources to specific learning centers on campus: Math Learning Center 143 Dunn / 901.678.2704 Science Learning Center 217 Mitchell / 901.678.2704 English Learning Center 225 Patterson / 901.678.2059 Business Learning Center 256 FCB  / 901.678.3912 Anatomy and Physiology/Psychology Learning Center 207 PanHellenic / 901.678.2704 Fall break is Oct 10 till Tuesday the 13. Everyone stay safe and stay warm. -Deji. Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Sep 29 2015 Maintain Access After Graduation Posted by Ayodeji Olusanya Hello 2015 grads, Once you graduate, keeping up with your Memphis username and password will give you access to your mymemphis portal. Upon completing your last class, each student has access to mailboxes,  umdrive, and his or her memphis email address for one full semester.  You can download all your files from umdrive before that full semester is over.  To continue to use the university, you will need to join the Alumni Association and enable email for life. The university gives graduates one free year of Alumni Association and Email for Life. Being a member of the Alumni Association offers several benefits and discounts not just in the Memphis area but also nation-wide at stores such as Brooks Brothers, target.com, Tiger bookstore, the University Bookstore, and many other places. Being a member will also allow you to take advantage of Email for life, which allows you to keep your @memphis.edu email account. mempbership needs to be renewed annually. If you need assistance with getting access to these programs or downloading your files, please contact -the University of Memphis Help Desk at 678-8888 To learn more about becoming a member of the Alumni Association,  Click Here P.S. Its time to order your Memphis rings and your graduation announcements. There will be a ring looking and sizing on Oct. 5-6 in the UC Lobby. Remember, your ring orders must be placed by Oct. 6th for you to be included in the Ring Ceremony. &#8211; Deji Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Sep 22 2015 Apply for Graduation. Posted by Ayodeji Olusanya It’s About That Time, Seniors! Hello! It about that time of the year for Undergraduate Seniors: Graduation, Baby! Well not necessarily… It’s time to apply for graduation. The following deadlines for application are: Graduation Term  Application Deadline    May 2016: November 11, 2015  August 2016:  April 6, 2016 December 2016: July 13, 2016 May 2017: November 19, 2016 This is for undergraduate students only. Graduate students will need to check with the Graduate School. Applying is an easy online process that’s also free of charge. Go to your myMemphis portal, and click the My Degree tab and look for the “Commencement and Graduation” channel for further instructions.  The channel also has information for those looking to join the Alumni Association. If you have problems or questions, please check with your  Graduation Analyst. We are almost done, seniors. Just one and a half more semesters. Don’t let senioritis kick in, push hard, and give it your best! -Deji Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Nov 13 2014 Winter Break and Finals Week Posted by Sarah White Good things come to those who work hard. Winter Break is quickly approaching, but first.. FINALS WEEK. Wouldn’t it be nice if you had someone to give you helpful tips that would make finals week a little easier? Well, that’s what I’m here for! When it comes down to it, the only way to prepare for finals week is eat, sleep, study, study, study. Lucky for you, I have some tips that will make studying a little easier and A LOT more beneficial for you. 1. Location and study groups. Grab 3-5 DEDICATED people that need to study just as much as you do. Not only do you need to be able to study in a quiet, peaceful place, you need to have more than one place to study. •Lucky for you, the University of Memphis has collaboration rooms where you can study with a group of people. You can find the Tech Hub in the UC and McWherther Library. 2. Switch subjects. Don’t study the same material for hours and hours. Study one subject, then 30 minutes later, study something else. When you get back to what you started with, your brain will be slightly refreshed and ready to pick up where you left off. •Most of your professors will have their PowerPoint or notes on eCourseware. You will find yourself doing better if you look over and study those when it comes to finals. If you don’t know how to access or find things on eCourseware, you can ask me anything you need to know. 3. Sleep and snack well. I’m sure you all know that 6-8 hours of sleep is essential, but did you know that it’s been proven to raise your GPA up to a WHOLE letter grade? As tempting as it is to grab a candy bar to take with you in case you get hungry while you’re studying, don’t. Snack on fruits and/or vegetables, drink water, and if you need a little caffeine, go get a cup of coffee. Now that we got all that out of the way, don’t forget to register for Spring ’15 classes! You&#8217;re almost done! You can start registering on November 17, 2014. Your advisor will have most of the answers for any questions you have, but if you have any questions you forgot to ask them, contact me, your Technology Coach, and I would be glad to help you! Posted in Uncategorized | Leave a comment | Oct 07 2014 Midterm tips Posted by Wayne Michael Rainey Hello! As the semester is approaching its halfway point and the much-needed fall break, we also have to get through our mid semester exams! I want to remind everyone that if you have to use the Respondus LockDown Browser for your tests, make sure that you have upgraded to the latest version of Internet Explorer. You can check the version by using the keyboard shortcut ALT+H and selecting About Internet Explorer. Being in the senior class, I know how challenging some of the upper division courses can be. I&#8217;ve had to use tutoring in classes before, and I know that they are valuable. The University of Memphis offers FREE tutoring for a wide range of subjects, including: Gen. Ed courses, Spanish, French, Japanese, Sociology, History Business courses: Accounting, Statistics, Management Information Systems, Finance, and other business courses Writing Science: Chemistry, Biology, and Physics Anatomy &amp; Physiology I encourage anyone to sign up for a tutor for any assignment that you may have questions with. You can find out more information, including hours and locations, at I would also like to remind everyone of the one-on-one group training that is available for those that are planning to take online courses. Course sign-ups for the Spring semester are beginning soon; make sure to take advantage of this training if you are signing up for any online course. You can sign up here . Fall Break is Saturday, October 11 &#8211; Tuesday, October 14. Everyone stay safe and have fun! Thanks, Wayne Posted in Fall 2014 | Leave a comment | Sep 03 2014 The 2014- 2014 School Year is in Full Swing Posted by Wayne Michael Rainey Hello, Senior Class! My name is Wayne Rainey.  I am a Senior here at The University of Memphis, and I am majoring in Management Information Systems, a Bachelor of Business Administration degree.  I am the new Senior Class Technology Coach, and I am pumped up to get the school year started!  I just wanted to remind everyone to please join the Technology Team if you want to get the  most  of what the University of Memphis has to offer in terms of technology resources. As the Fall semester is underway, I want to remind everybody on the available methods in which Professors interact with their students when it comes to student feedback: Through the use of Clickers, students have the ability to provide rapid responses to their professor during their in-room classes for polls and surveys. Be sure to follow the guidelines of your instructors when registering your Clicker, as some instructors might have differing instructions. Form some eCourses, the Respondus Lockdown Browser is implemented in order to isolate the testing environment. Ensure that you have the Respondus Client installed before you take the test (and allow ample time before the test is due, to ensure that you are able to submit it before the deadline.) eLearn is the go-to source for all web-based material for The University of Memphis courses. If you are taking online courses, eLearn (eCourseware) is where you will go to access all of your online classes, which are divided by class. For every class, you will find the course syllabus, schedule, etc. For traditional on-campus classes, some professors may utilize eLearn for supplemental learning material, acceptance of assignments via the dropbox, or further online discussions. Make sure to check with your instructor if you are not sure. We will soon be open for one-on-one technology training, and if you are interested, especially for those that have online courses or need help with classroom technology, please email  techcoach@memphis.edu .  I look forward to seeing everyone! -Wayne Posted in Fall 2014 , Welcome | Leave a comment | Jun 22 2014 Welcome! Posted by Donisha Crumb Welcome Team! The ITS Service Desk is excited to introduce a gateway to learn more information about the technology around campus. The Service Desk is doing this by providing Technology Coaches to each specific classification of students. The mission of the Technology Coaches is to EMPOWER students with the ABILITY and UNDERSTANDING of the University’s technology resources. The coaches’ work with students in the following ways: locating tutoring resources online course navigation software and hardware recommendations and much more The Service Desk would love for students to take advantage of all the benefits supplied through this program. My goal is to help you all with things you may need to know in your last year of Undergrad! Keeping you updated with need to know things and offering that on campus technical support is the purpose I am here. So tell your friends that are seniors or even other classifications to JOIN, JOIN, JOIN!  Let&#8217;s work together and make your last few semesters an excellent one! Click Here to Sign Up Below is the web address for the Technology Coaches website which is located on the University website. Posted in Welcome | Leave a comment | Search for: Recent Posts Spring 2016 Registration Service Desk Support System Stay focused Maintain Access After Graduation Apply for Graduation. Recent Comments Archives November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 June 2014 Categories Fall 2014 Uncategorized Welcome Meta Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS blogs.memphis.edu &copy; Senior Technology Team - Powered by Edublogs and WPThemes.co.nz Skip to toolbar University of Memphis University Home Memphis Blogs Blogging Help Log In Search